Very good food. Decent service. Costly ($34 + taxes + tip per head)Reservations are needed like 2-3 days in advance, though they keep some seats for walk ins (esp for large group of 6 or more).We sat on 2nd floor and the gaps between food servings was a bit more then what I liked.Washrooms are super clean with towels, etc.Aam ras was good but was more like mango pulp and not like aam panna - which is what we expected on reading the menu.In desert, we got icecream - which I personally didn't like much.Would have preferred multiple offering of deserts in main course (in desert as well). And this is a unique feature here, that you don't know what all is out there to eat before hand which is both good and bad. Bad because you can't prepare yourself for what is to come and what you like and what not. Good because there is always an element of surprise.Also when mentioned that kid with us is allergic to nuts, they took special care and told about each item that had nuts in it..Though I eat a lot and hence multiple servings were needed of many items, for most people on our table, one servings of all items were filling enough.Another drawback that I have heard is that everyday it is exactly the same menu with no change. Though plus point is that their quality doesn't go down either... ever.Would recommend going there - and for me, I will order spicy next time (had ordered medium)Been here twice . I am not fan of vegetarian food but this place stands out. They have 3-4 course menu. They have plenty of stuff in each of the course. The service is also great, the hist explains you what to expect and also provide a brief on the food. Everything served over here is just awesome.My favorite is the dal . Its bit on the costlier side (effectively $35) but its worth it !Will highly recommend this place !Came here for dinner. When I entered, the places was well decorated.The prefix meal consists of three courses for $34. I started to feel after barely completing the entree course.The experience is quite different than the other places nearby.Been here the last 2 years for Diwali dinner with friends. It was fun both times. The all you can eat thali plate is a legit deal. You get the appetizer with 10 different items then entree with 8-10 Items. All the food tastes great. It's all vegetarian. Then dessert with ice cream, gulab jamun and chai. It's about 43 dollars each with gratuity included which isn't bad considering all the food and the variety.SPACEThis is one of the prettiest restaurants in NYC I've ever been to. When i stripped into the dining area, I felt like I stepped into a tropical family home. Except for the murals of Indians, it looked like my family's backyard in the Caribbean. There's a beautiful Hindu god statu and super tall beautiful trees. The tables and chairs were semi-comfortable. Some seating require you to take off your shoes. So don't forget the Odor Eaters spray before dining there. Your companions will thank you. STAFFI found the servers to be super polite. They answered all of our questions on the menu. I wish they labeled the food items while pointing to them in the menu because, I don't know about you but, I learn by seeing not just hearing.FOODSpeaking about the food, it was delicious. Unfortunately, I cannot list my favs because I don't remember what they are called. See paragraph above for why. The all-you-can feature is amazing! I especially like that they provide so many different dishes. Entrees alone included like 5 pieces of food. It's like having my own tapas platter. I don't recommend drinking anything but water so you don't fill yourself up with liquids but rather with delicious Indian food. I love that they ask for pur preferred spice level: mild, medium, and hot. OVERALLI visited this restaurant with friends, and we enjoyed it. I recommend it also for families. I would not recommend it for a first date if you never had Indian food.Vatan is a great place to come with a group. Although everyone gets their own plate, it's fun to discuss the different dishes and share leftovers if you can't finish. The portions are huge, I struggled to finish each bite. However, my favorite thing about this place is that you get to try a little bit of everything! Sweet, savory, salty, creamy, etc. - you have it all right in front of you. My only regret is that I didn't get to try the dessert, since I was in a rush to get to another reservation. Will definitely have to go back to try the sweets :)Vatan is amazing! This is my second time here after a few years and I was so glad the service and quality has not changed! My friend and I got the prixe fixe menu (app, entree, dessert) and ordered drinks: piña colada and lychee martini. Both very tasty. Our server was attentive and so kind. And of course the food was GREAT!! The medium heat wasn't crazy spicy but I opted for mild instead. The best Indian food ever (and it's al vegetarian btw).Amazing. My wife and I eat here EVERY time we come to New York. Growing up in England I was spoiled for Indian choices, living in the states has been challenging for great Indian.We have been coming here for 10 years whenever in NY and looking to 10 more. This place and Korma Sutra in Kansas City. 2 of the best Indian meals anywhere in the US!Styled like a beautiful rustic Indian village, this is one of the best Indian 'themed' restaurants I've been to.The cuisine is Indian vegetarian, specifically from the western state of Gujarat. They have a pre-fixe dinner for $32 which includes all you can eat appetizers, entrees and dessert.In a nutshell: The food is good. Not too spicy or greasy. I usually come here for the amazing decor and good service.Deep dive:Food:It's different from most other Indian places in Curry Hill because it comes from a different part of the country. Though they have commonly found items like mini samosas, vadas, roti, rice, etc. there's unique Gujarati items too: Khaman, mirchi bhaji, muthia (appetizers). Slightly sweet dal, khichdi, kadhi (entrée)The thing that I like most about the food is that it's simple Gujarati food that won't wreak havoc on your stomach from being too spicy or oily.Service: Nice staff. Mostly Indian. They take the time to explain the menu and all your options. They're attentive but don't interrupt you too much.Ambience: This is the best part! The HUGE restaurant is styled to look like a village in India, complete with a tree, well, balconies, old iron doors and a ganesha statue. The booths that you sit in are like little huts. Some of them let you take you shoes off and sit in the cross legged Indian style. The staff is dressed in simple ethnic Indian garb.Would totally recommend checking this place out if you want a visual treat along with a great meal.Very nice open space with a great staff. The food is amazing and they feed you a lot. Come in with a empty stomach :)The service here is top notch. They are so so nice and attentive. They took time to explain the menu while dealing with a bratty couple sitting near us. The upstairs is perfect for groups because there are big tables. They accept reservations. The ambiance is calming. While the place is vegetarian, you shouldn't be scared away if you are a meat lover. You will leave completely stuffed and forget you even ate a vegetarian meal. The appetizers didn't kill it for me, but the main entree was so good ... Like nearly popped a button. All you can eat, $32 per person, great service ... Go!I was stuffed after finishing dinner here. $34 all you can eat Indian vegetarian food including a tray of appetizers, a tray of entrees and a tray of deserts. You then reorder whatever food in the tray you'd like to eat again. All the foods listed on the Yelp menu is included. The service is great, the atmosphere relaxed and the decor lovely. You do take off your shoes and the booths are a little difficult to get in and out of - especially after eating 6-9 trays of food - but it's all worth it.This place is superb. The food here (Gujarati) is quite different from your standard American Indian places, but also quite different from the rest of the places in Curry Hill. Everything was perfectly spiced and a good level of heat as well. You receive a great variety of dishes and truly, I loved every single one. It may seem a little expensive, but for unlimited food of this quality and for the kind of kitschy-yet-adorable decor, this place is great for a fun celebration. I can't wait to go back.This is one of the best Indian restaurants I've ever been to! I can not wait to go back! Everything was so freakin good! The spices and all the different flavors were to die for! Ugh! Ok so the ambiance is cool. I noticed some people removed their shoes before siting Indian style in the booths. Fair warning, go there with an extra empty stomach! So it is basically buffet style but they bring the food to you. You get to taste everything on the menu and if you want more they'll bring you more. It is actually a good amount of food. By the time our main meal came out we were stuffed! Service was great! I will definitely go back and will be bringing more people with me!This place took me back home. It's amazing food but just go there very very hungry. The quantity of food is mind blowing. I'm annoyed I couldn't relish every bite, I was so full after the first course itself. It obviously has some hits and misses. Their khichadi (a lentil + rice concoction) is the best I've had across all Indian restaurants in New York. Vatan is also one of the few places that serves actual roti - thin, leavened bread made exclusively from wheat flour. Very different from naan. More laborious to make, but so delicious. Of the vegetables, I loved the spinach-corn and the cauliflower. The chick peas were just ok. Went back again last night, this time with a larger appetite and then promptly walked home the forty blocks to walk off the food.In my 18 years of stay in this country, I have tried several Indian restaurants. This is as good as it gets. The variety in gujarati food you find here is exhaustive and it's close to what you get in Indian homes. Service is fantastic. Just one thing - come very very hungry. Skip a meal prior to this one if you have to because this one is worth it!We especially wanted to try this to get the Thali experience in NY. But we were absolutely disappointed. They seated us upstairs and there were long gaps between courses. . Too long. The servers were friendly and polite but they were unable to cope it seemed. The food itself was nothing great for a $30 thali. I'd much prefer Rajdhani (LA)  over this any given day. The palak corn was, gujarati dal, dahi batata puri, khichdi and kadhi were good but not remarkable. Their ambience is great. But you can definitely skip this.People who have never tried real homemade Gujarati food might love this place. Not only it is WAY overpriced, it encourages a lot of food wasted. The unlimited thali comes with roti, puri and rice. In the end there was a lot of rice, kadi, khichdi, and some veggies that were leftovers. I can't respect any place that is so callous with food wastage.Awesome awesome awesome!! The relaxed ambiance of this restaurant is so nice - comfortable seating, beautiful decor, and lovely music. Bathrooms very clean. The place to go for authentic Indian cuisine and atmosphere! The service is fantastic - welcoming, knowledgeable about food allergies, great menu, very thorough in menu item explanations, recommended food pairings, and offered digestive at the end. Being able to taste a small amount of everything on the menu is a great way to explore new flavors, foods and culture. Food ... So delicious! A great place to visit and escape the city for an evening!I wanted to give 2.5 stars but don't have that option in Yelp.Ambiance is good and service is alright but the main part food is below average.Mainly being a gujarati restaurant, there aren't many Gujarati options in their menu.Apart from few appetizers, main course is a complete lack luster. Main course doesn't have any authentic Gujarati curry, just the dal/khadhi are meal savior.I understood why my husband insisted on goin to jersey city vatan instead of this one.If you crave Gujarati food, JC vatan is far better and has true flavors and don't try the buffet instead have A la carte there. Puran poli, vagharelo rotlo, khichu is absolutely yummy.Awful service, rude staff - especially Mahesh (the guy with the hair do), the food was cold, average food but the extremely poor service made the food below average. The service was so slow that we waited for 35 minutes before our first cold appetizer was brought out we had to wait another 45 minutes for the main course and worse of all we had to wait for our credit cards to be returned. When this was brought up to Mahesh he rudely said "it's Friday night our service is slow deal with it" before storming off with no apology whatsoever.Good Indian food in a decent setting. Food is tasty. The desserts are frankly sad, but they have chai to make up for lack of dessert options.The ambience is not bad. Good place to hang out with an Indian friend.We went to Vatan over the holiday season, and I was impressed with it. We made a reservation up ahead, and were greeted by the host who promptly seated us. We were made to remove our shoes when we were going to sit, which is sort of a customary thing to do in India. The ambiance was great, with a lot of photos of rural India and an artificial tree, and even a water well ! The waitress was really warm and friendly, and explained to us how the Thali system works and offered a good assessment of the spice levels. If there is one thing I really miss about Indian food while living in US, is the lack of vegetarian options. Vatan naturally fulfills that what I miss. There was 3 courses of food options: appetizer, main course, dessert and chai. We really liked the appetizers a lot, with the mirchi bajjis, dhoklas and sev puri being my favorite. The main course was just about ordinary, and the mango icecream in the end was really good. Overall, I liked the ambiance, food and the decor of this place. I only wish it was a little cheaper. It is about 32$ per person which just doesn't add up. We realized the profit of margin this place makes is really high. If the Thali was 20-25$ I would come back to eat here again.Appetizer thali was served cold. Main Course thali was fine with normal tasting food. Reordering took so much time. Servers wouldn't show up that often. Desserts were disappointing too. Way too expensive. Indian village set up is great !Better than everI have been going to Vatan for years. There's no better place for special birthday celebrations and out of town quests.  I went to Vatan last night after not being there for a while and the food was spectacular -  better than ever! Do not pas sup an opportunity to try it.I hate vegetables. Let's get that out of the way. Broccoli is a gas-causing, acrid piece of green heartburn. Kale and spinach taste exactly like that baby thinks when he throws them from his plate onto the floor. I know they're healthy, but come on... they taste awful!Vatan solves that problem. Being Indian allows them to use the spices that make India famous for taking boring (chicken) or horribly tasting (vegetables) food and covering it up. The place itself is exotic looking, with a tree growing through the ground floor, and beautiful tables in the basement. The prix fixe menu lets you taste everything, and order more of what you like... and there probably will be a lot of it. The spicing is sensational. For some food, you have your choice of mild, medium or spicy. Pick the spicy! I went with friends, among them a real live Indian (from Mumbai). He said it was all authentic... and from his area in India. Carnis and Omnis, fear not! This stuff is good... it does NOT taste like vegetables. AND, you can get some nice Flying Horse beer to wash it down with. --Eat Club is a monthly group of gluttons, a different restaurant every month!Vatan is a $32 prix fixe Gujarati, and therefore vegetarian, all-you-can-eat (but not buffet style) dinner place founded in 1996 a block off the center of Curry Hill. While $32 may seem a tad steep, the radical variety and exoticism the 22 dishes provide are both rare and delightful. Carnivores, know that I am one of you, and do not dismiss this place - its sheer variety in flavor profile even gives meat a run for its money.PRO TIP: Starve for lunch if you're planning to go here, because finishing just one serving of all 22 dishes is an accomplishment in itself, much less multiple portions.The PlaceThe restaurant itself is a feast for the eyes. A far cry from the drab conformity of most restaurants, Vatan features paintings on every square inch of the wall itself to transport you into the region of the food you consume. You can even see a real verandah (a balcony) jutting out from a painted building on a wall, and a full sized tree. The limelight is consumed by a statue of a Ganesha, an Indian god depicted by an elephant, lit in glorious pink. The restaurant mostly has alcoves, not tables, all at a height off the ground, and separated from each other for privacy. Some of them are covered with a hay roof for maximum feels. In typical cultural tradition, you need to take off your shoes outside the alcove before you sit around the table. Typically, parties of 4 or more sit in the alcoves and I'm not sure where smaller groups go. You could sit cross-legged if you want, which is the cultural norm. The ServiceYour waitress is typically a traditional Indian woman, fully clothed in authentic attire. Our waitress in particular wasn't the most enthusiastic on the day, and this was probably the biggest turn off for our party of 5. She insisted on not letting us wait a few minutes for our 5th friend to arrive, and she seemed like she was really rushing some of the courses out. When we'd ask for refills of particular dishes, she screwed them up a few times. She also seemed rather reluctant to explain to us which dish was what. Towards the end of the meal, she seemed rather eager to get us to leave to seat the next party despite us still working on dessert. The tip of 18% was included, perhaps because we were a party of five. The FoodThe 22 dishes are brought out in 4 parts - Appetizers, Entrees, Complements to Entrees and Dessert. You can order them in any order you like, and we preferred starting with the Masala Chai. Remember, you can order unlimited repeats of any dish you like. The appetizer comes with 8 dishes, entrees come with 9, there are 3 complements and 2 desserts. PRO TIP: Do not forget to order the Aam Rus. It's a mango paste, and by request only, at no additional price.  Appetizers:Remember, don't overload on the appetizers (especially by ordering repeats). It's a common mistake, and you'll ruin your meal. And do not skimp on the condiments - the chutneys and vinegar carrots and not-so-hot peppers go together like Upper East Side and age.1. Chana Masala - Garbanzo beans with onion and coriander2. Muthia - Steamed flour with spinach3. Khaman - Puffed cream of white flour cakes. Akin to a Dhokla.4. Mirchi bhujia - Friend hot peppers with garam masala5. Sev Puri - Potatoes, garbanzo beans, yogurt, and chutney filled in a crisp bread.6. Samosa - Triangular savory pastries filled with spicy potatoes and green peas.7. Batata vada - Friend potato balls in chickpea flour butter8. Ragda patis - Potato cutlet in a white bean sauce.Entrees:Very "thali" style.1. Toor Daal - A sweet lentil soup made with Indian spices2. Ful-cobi - Cauliflower and green peas sautéed in a savory sauce3. Batakanu Sak - Potatoes cooked in a mild red gravy4. Chole - Chickpeas cooked with tamarind and garam masala5. Bhaji - Sautéed spinach and corn6. Puri / Roti - Varieties of whole wheat bread7. Papadum - Thin lentil wafers8. Kheer - Typically a dessert, but served as an entree. Rice pudding with saffron and dry fruits.9. Aam Rus (by request) - Mango pulpComplements to Entrees:This is when it becomes too much food. Served with the entrees, we couldn't make a dent in these.1. Pulao - Boiled rice with peas2. Khichdi - Lentils mixed with rice and assorted vegetables3. Kadhi - Soup with yogurt and chickpea flour in authentic spicesDesserts:Best course to order repeats in.1. Ice Cream - Home made Indian ice cream (it was Mango flavored the day we went)2. Masala Chai - Indian tea cooked with cardamom (elaichi), ginger and milkOverall, the food was unlike anything I've ever tasted and the sheer variety, quantity and exoticism makes it truly stand-out. Despite our service being sub-par, the decor, experience, and the food at a fairly respectable price point given the quantity, Vatan is a clear 5 stars. Vatan is so unique that there is simply no competition. Although typically not regarded as upscale or spoken about as the "best Indian place in New York", Vatan delights in every which way.The quality of food and service has really gone down the last time I've visited this restaurant. The server barely came to check on our refills and wasn't very attentive. The food was consistently late and after a while the server just stopped serving us and we had to ask for a different server after waiting for over 30 mins with no one to check on us. I wouldn't even give this place one star. Also all this happened when we were out for my dads 60th bday dinner. I wouldn't go back to this place ever. And to top it all they charge 18% gratuity. What a joke!Amazing food! Even though the price is on a higher end I would definitely recommend it for authentic Gujarati cuisine.Pro tip: Refrain from eating a lot of the sumptuous appetisers or you will miss out on the equally sumptuous main course and desserts!So love this place! The portions are huge and I could never finish my meals. The thalis are amazing and the atmosphere is beautiful! A real treat! Definitely recommend if you want authentic Indian cuisine!This is a great place for gujju food. Very authentic decor and nice soothing Bollywood songs playing softly adds to the experience. Only issue is the price. Wish they add a mini thali at a reduced rate for people will can't eat so much.The must have here are the ragda Patrice, aamras, khadi, shaak, Chole and phulka.Love the food at this place. Taste, authentity and quality wise I would say this place is better than some of the places in the Indian street areas nearby. Being non vegetarian we were not sure about the place since they serve only vegetarian food. But on persuasion decided to try it. The appetizers are really good and you should try to fill up on those. Tastes just like what u would get in Mumbai. The concept is similar to an unlimited thali you would get in India. Mango ice cream they serve at the end is good too. Only thing I felt missing was that there was no ghee served with the rice, something I enjoyed. The ambience is great too, very spacious and you feel like you are eating in an authentic Indian village setting. A must visit.Ambience and service were amazing. The tables, decorations and music made for a really nice experience. Food wise, the appetizer and dessert are the best courses. Wish I had ordered more appetizer once I got to the main course (taking off one star for this). Dessert was delicious and they serve masala chai at the end of the meal.Would definitely go back!Holy Cow, Vatan is a disgrace to desis, Indians and especially Gujaratis. I felt like something died in my stomach after I left. If you commit to eating here, commit to being robbed. It felt like an overpriced ticket for people who want to visit an Indian exhibit in Epcot Center... the taste and quality of the food matches the type of people who would want to visit said exhibit in Epcot Center.  This conversation between the server and I will sum up my experience:ME: Excuse me (after constant flagging of my arms), we think our orders were mixed. We asked for HOT, like Indian Hot. SERVER: "This is our hot. We don't have hot hot because the Americans eat here. So we have to make sure they can eat too"ME: Can I at least get some achar?SERVER: (embarrassed) "we don't have achar or anything to make more hot, maybe garlic paste?"ME AND SERVER: [For the rest of the meal, the server avoided my eyes or when she did look at me said through her body language, "I know, I despise this food too, no ghee, bland, incorrect ingredients, it's an embarrassment... but the white people eat it up because they don't know any better and this is how we make a living"]SERVER: "Would you like anything else? Ice cream? ..."ME: No, just the check (after it was clear that we couldn't even eat half of our food or sip the chai)Based on these Yelp reviews, I can confidently state that there are three types of people who eat here:1) Non-Desis or Europeans with guide books: These people give Vatan 3 or more stars. That is because their palates are alien to this type of food. They can't conceptualize that each bite is supposed to have about 6-8 different flavors that ONLY come out with the spice. (Don't EAT it if you can't take the heat!) They probably use utensils to eat... they get a pass... 2) Desis: Looking through these reviews it's clear that those, like I, who grew up with amazing homemade desi food find this place a wretched tourist circus. It's like telling me that Taco Bell is where I should go for home-cooked Mexican food. The food was dull, bland, nothingness... We were recently in Gujarat for a month visiting family and ate our way through India. In Ahmedabad, we had the most AMAZING all you can eat veg Thali meal. My spouse (who is Cuban), was even able to immediately tell that Vatan was lifeless crud... The Desi establishments have left NYC people.. you can only get good Indian (read: Gujarati) food in the tri-state area in Edison, New Jersey or at home. For reals. 3) Desis who somehow grew up in a home where their folks sucked at cooking: Desis who give Vatan 3 stars or more. I feel bad for their souls. Just. Don't. Do. It. It is THAT bad. Colonized BS.Horrible! The "sambar" was made from a paste and the food was all sweet and terrible (what do you expect if they are making for the masses). It was $150+ for a party of 5 and we only got 1 round of food each because it was that bad! This place is so not worth the money. One of the "sweet" items on the entree thali was literally a mango purée from a can probably the same thing used to make mango lassi. Not worth the money at all for all you can eat.Nope - this place is not doing it for me. I came here on advisement from a colleague who loves this place. He's Indian (came from India 10 years ago) and found this place pretty authentic. I came with high hopes especially since I grew up eating home cooked Indian food I know the crap most Indian restos like to pass off as "authentic". This place seems authentic but the food is so bland that it hurts me that I've spent the amount that I did on the food here.I think of this place as an over-the-top cultural experience for non-Indians as opposed to a restaurant providing mind-blowingly good food. Case in point, there are paintings of classic Indian art on the walls, there is a large elephant statue in the corner, a model well with metal urns symbolizing the village life in India, the food is served on thalis (see explanation below) and traditional metal glasses typically found in India. But with all the fan fare, they loose points on food quality, which to me is an important factor for a restaurant. This place serves you a pre-fix several course meal on thalis - which are large circular plates of food with smaller bowls filled with different dishes (typically curries and dal). You have a choice in your spice level but even when I requested a high spice level, the food taste was missing the typical flavors that I am used to. Also - where is your menu for desserts?? I have a huge obsession with Indian sweets (mithai) and I was disappointed to see that the meal only comes with mango ice cream. Indians have a wealth of different desserts and to serve only ice cream, to me, was a big cop out.After a long day of meetings in New York, I ended up going to Vatan with a few clients who grew up in India and who suggested this spot.  They always pick excellent Indian restaurants, but this one is my favorite thus far. They told me that in Hindi, "Vatan" means "Home"...and with an experience like this, you might want to change your address to southern India! The ambiance is very cool.  There are no windows in two story dining room, which normally would be a negative, but there are enormous murals covering the wall and ceiling that make you feel as if you are actually in a small Indian village...and certainly not at 29th and 3rd.  As for the prix fixe...it is shockingly good.  Everyone at the table will literally be brought every single dish on the menu, which is spectacular because there are 8 appetizers, 9 entrees, 3 sides and 2 deserts.  This kit of parts could easily be considered a 22 course tasting menu and at $32!!!  Most likely you will not be able to eat all of the food that is brought to the table.  My favorites included the Sev Puri, Bhaji, Kheer and Chole.  The homemade ice-cream they bring at the end is fantastic and is perfectly complimented by the chai tea.  Shockingly, the wait staff at Vatan will bring you as many of these dishes as you want.  One of the diners in our party had three helpings of ice cream...it was that good!  The presentation of these dishes is also unique as they come on metal trays instead of plates.   If you are looking for a place to take a vegetarian friend or client, look no further everything we ate was vegetarian and was delicious.  Even for me and my generally carnivorous appetite Vatan stand out...big time.  The restaurant was very busy when I went, but I was told it can be extremely popular on the weekends so a reservation is a must.Love the ambience and I love Gujurati food!! Was really happy to get the authentic gujurati food here.Just what I was looking for. I initially thought the thali is overpriced but its totally worth. The appetizers and entrées are perfect, the taste is authentic. The portions for every item are small but that's good in a way. You can taste everything on the plate and avoid wastage of food. I recommend tasting each and every item on the menu and then go for repeating your favorite. I liked their way of serving food in traditional steel plates, steel glasses for water. The hut like seating is cute. Let me add this, even the washrooms are impressive and they use clean cloth towels to wipe your hands instead of paper towels. That's a good initiative. To sum up...this place is flawless.the food here is very good. i definitely love the food here and is one of my fav restaurants in midtown. The only bad thing here is service. Sometimes you have almost half an hour for a waiter to show up. But except that no other complaints!!!I enjoyed the meal very much, especially the khudhi and dal.  The food was not as outstanding as I expected, but it was quite acceptable and the service and atmosphere were lovely.Great Gujarati food and great reminder of original taste of homemade food. Love the service as well. Little bit on the expensive side, but you will get real taste of Gujarati Indian Food.Great food, great service. Couldn't ask for more. Food is authentic Indian thali cuisine.We like the village-like ambient and the service here. Food is from Gujaratis. The all you eat has three courses with great service and intros. Everything's in small dishes. So we get lots of varieties. It's veggie with lots of peas, which makes us super full. 60% of the dishes contain potatoes. Did not eat much though hungry (I think two of us eat up only 20 bucks). Personally I like puri and chai. I would recommend it to those who like to try and learn authentic indian food and environment. The service and explanation well worth the pay. Second try is overpriced.What a bummer! ! I am a vegetarian and indian so this was supposed to be a perfect place for my dinner. Let's start with ambience and presentation. It's a different setup with indian rural touch, authentic plates & silverware and seats. Service is also very good. But music is not at all aligned to the atmosphere. It kills the experience. 4 star on thatFood was below average. Aam ras (mango shake) is made from mango pulp, samosa are frozen. Most of the sabzi/curry are based of potatoes. Paneer is missing. Chai was horrible. Comparing a gujrati thali i had in a small town in Gujrat ( not a fancy one), this is no where close in terms of quality or quantity. 2 star on food.For $34 and so much hype I won't recommend it to my friends. There are so many restaurants in nyc with better food and ambience/experience.This is the best vegetarian Indian fare in NYC. Authentic food, good ingredients, predictable quality, great ambience and service. I have been here many many times over years and taken a lot of people along there as well. Never once any one didn't like it. Even though it's vegetarian only, even my non vegetarian friends love this place. The person who owns it opened the restaurants as a side venture and you can see the place is not running for profit, the place is spacious and you are not breathing on next table's people's necks... There is enough space and you can enjoy a cozy meal. Food is based on West Indian cuisine (Gujarat and Rajasthan). The appetizers are the best and the kichadi is to die for exactly home cooked style. No 1 Indian restaurant in the city, a must have Indian restaurant if you are in NYC and before you give up on Indian cuisine!Delicious, all-you-can eat Gujarati Indian food at a great price? What more can one ask for! The service is efficient, friendly, and warm; the atmosphere is quiet and very conducive to dates; and the food is exquisite. Everything is prix fixe, so you're getting the chefs' top picks, and the appetizers and entrees are served as thalis (small dishes), so you're getting to taste a diversity of dishes. And you never have to worry about not getting enough to eat because you can order as many seconds as you want of your favorites. Each and every dish is delicious, but since I have a sweet tooth, I often savor the ice cream (usually mango-flavored) with special relish. I'm vegetarian, so I of course love this place and consider it one of my favorite spots in New York, but my more carnivorous friends have also had great dining experiences here. It's the kind of place that makes even the most stubborn meat-eater happy to go veggie for at least one meal.Come hungry (it is all-you-can-eat after all) and with time to spare so that you can savor and appreciate each dish.This was an amazing experience. Went for dinner. Menu was not a la carte, which was great b/c i wanted to eat everything on the menu. Dinner is pre-fixe at $32, all you can eat (plated, not buffet) of 3 courses. They ask about food allergies prior to serving your meal (not sure about gluten free). This place is strictly vegetarian. Honestly, i loved everything. Only thing i did not eat was the fried pepper b/c i was afraid an explosion of spiciness would occur and that would ruin my palate. Everything was flavorful. My entree was requested as medium spicy and that was exactly what i got. (In my experience of other indian restaurants is that u ask for medium spicy or even very spicy and u get mild so then u wind up drowning the food in their spicy sauces for the desired heat.)Loved their chai tea. Mango ice cream not bad. Their dining area decor was so unique. Even the bathrooms had the "village" decor (i know it sounds like it would appear old & rinky-dink but the bathrooms were quite modern, updated & clean. I was actually impressed). The murals were massive & well done. Theres a small upstairs that overlooks the main dining room. Do yourself a huge favor- skip curry row & brick lane, and come here instead. Ull leave more than satisfied. Im definitely coming back and clearly recommend it. They accept credit cards.This place serves frozen samosas and canned am raas...not worth the price. Horrible service.Rude staff. Menu is false advertisement and not all food is served fresh. Food is below average, lacking desi flavor. Honestly this food is a disgrace.Great food! Great ambience! Great service!Restrooms are clean, servers are friendly. One of the best Indian places around.A place every Indian should visit. It is home food away from home. Beautiful experience.I've been thoroughly enjoying Indian food for many years where I grew up in New Jersey, while traveling extensively for business in London, India, Singapore, Brazil, and on and on. I prepare Indian cuisine in my home.I've since moved away from NJ but somehow found this place on Yelp during my last trip to NYC. Boy am I glad I did! When I found out that I was going back to New York for work, one of my initial thoughts was VATAN, a Gujarati, vegetarian, all-you-can-eat, only-open-for-dinner on 3rd Ave between 28th and 29th.The service was fantastic - again. I was greeted by name when I walked in (Thanks, Open Table.) They seated me quickly (though I was 30 minutes early.) I was almost immediately offered a beverage and had a menu with a pleasant greeting. The server throughout my meal was helpful, attentive, and very pleasant. Water was refilled before I put my glass down yet it wasn't one of those things where the server is hanging all over you working a tip. Really professional.The food...I could go on about the food for some time. The place is an all-you-can-eat but they bring it to your table rather than buffet style. For hygienic reasons,  temperature and quality of food, and pure laziness, this is a much better approach. I also don't take as much.First they bring you a load of appetizers. Next, your entree arrives which is served in Thali style (by the way, you have a choice of mild, medium, or hot.)  On both occasions, I went with hot. It's really not that hot by Indian standards. If there is one item you want more of, they bring it. If you want more of it 10 times, presumably they bring it 10 times. This is true even for dessert and tea. The ice cream was even deeeerishous!I'm a big eater but I was easily and handily beaten - there was no way I could order more of anything. There's a lot of food. And it's really, really good stuff. Frickin' Yum.My favorite restaurant in NY the past 17 years, amazing food and so much fun - take a look at the pics.Tasty  food, very good service, and comfortable surroundings.  My only complaint is that the menu does not change.Great setup, good service, amazing array of food items. What let's down the authenticity of the food. It's more bland and cosmopolitan than proper Indian food. Been there twice and both times I found  several items not as good for the price. To be honest most Indian restaurants offering thali give you a ok-decent deal but never give you the proper thali that one would get back in india and that's expected for a $10-$20 meal. But for a $40-$50 thali, you really expect no botch-ups!And that is where they let you down.Terrible food,trying not to throw up while I write this. Appetizers seemed ok while eating but after a few minutes I started feeling sick ..may be it's the oil they use or spike food with something so customers feel terribly full even before the main course arrives.Food was not fresh,tasted like it's been lying around.The only food that felt fresh and hot was the Gujarati Kadi.Overall bad food.I will not be going back again.I went here looking to satisfy my urge for something close to a home cooked meal. I wasn't let down, they really got some of the key dishes right and it reminded me of my family dinners. It's structured on a set menu of three courses of 'tastings' which put my friend and I at ease as we didn't to navigate some complicated menu and enjoyed all the classic Gujarati dishes. Make sure you come with an appetite as its all you can eat. In terms of the overall experience, I really enjoyed the food and the service was genuine. Please make the decision to go as this is a very authentic Indian experience that is hard to match anywhere else. A solid 4 star based on strong dishes, nice atmosphere and friendly service.I have been to Vatan several times over the past 5 years and I love that you get to try such a big selection of Indian vegetarian dishes and the environment is really cute.  That said, while some of the food was excellent (mango ice cream and several potato based dishes), when I ate here last week for the first time in several years I found much of the food very bland.  I asked for my food hot, but not only was there no heat at all, many of the dishes seemed watery and totally lacking any flavor.I would recommend this restaurant for people who want to try Indian food but do not know where to start.  The cute village like set up and mild dishes would also be great for kids.*** Great Portions/Very filling, Cozy atmosphere, Great Price *** We ordered the option where it was a pre-fixe option. You get a TON of options and you can ask for more. It is insanely filling so be sure to come here on an empty stomach. The indian food here is pretty good and I would recommend trying this out if you're looking for a vegetarian restaurant. Staff is great and very accommodating.A-OK with a side of disneyland kitch. I'm a huge fan of Indian cuisine and Vatan did not disappoint, though there is something to be desired. Let me explain:Upon entry, you are greeted by a friendly host who will take you to your table in a (borderline silly) Indian village (with a large sculpture of Ganesha watching over). Shoes are removed, and you are seated. A pair of servers will explain that there is nothing to consider for your all-you-can-eat meal aside from the spice level (mild, medium, hot) of the main course. You can choose beverages and there is a very basic wine & beer list and limited, but full-ish bar.As the name suggests, all of the dishes are vegetarian, and for those of us who might think that a lack of meat is a problem, well, that course of thought is plain wrong.It all sounds great, why only 3 stars? The food isn't spectacular, its fine. What is spectacular is the variety of foods that you sample and the *idea* of endless dishes. You won't be able to finish all that is brought to the table.The service was friendly, almost too friendly. You could tell there was a warmth.It's a fun spot to bring an out of town guest. I'll most certainly return.Amazing !! That's all I have to say. Great good, great ambience!! And my husband who goes for only non- vegetarian food options loved it here too! I think that speaks a lot. Will definitely visit again.I'm all about all you can eat places. This place was a game changer for me. Vegetarian tasting good? No way. I'm a total carnivore. WRONG.This place was so freaking good. They bring out everything in like a sampler type of plater with little portions of everything called Thai. You can ask for more of whatever you like and they'll bring it out to you. Everything that they bring out is delicious, so just try everything.My favorites were the sev puri, kheer, mango ice cream, and tea. Ugh so good. Definitely check it out. You won't be disappointed.Had an incredible time. The staff is so incredibly attentive and helpful - but the best part is the quality of the food. Feels authentic and homemade. And the ambiance really makes you feel like you're no longer in nyc.Words can't explain....A memorable full experience. excellent service!! excellent atmosphere!!! Food is tasty and so flavorful. I went last night and I'm still thinking about this amazing place. Waitress Mina (sorry if spelled incorrectly) is a gem. She described each dish in a great way. She explained and described the levels of spice!!Great service. I will go again and request her. $32.00 prix fix all you can eat....def worth it . It's worth it because you get great dishes....and great service and beautiful atmosphere which is not easy to find (all of that) in a lot of places.Thanks againSo tasty!  I'm not a vegetarian but I appreciate Vegetarian / Vegan food, and this place does not disappoint. Each bite is a blast of spices and sauces and authentic taste that leaves you ravenous for the next bite.I came here with my friend and we both ate every part of every course offered to us.  Only knocks are that the dishes the food was served on weren't completely clean and the water jugs were not 100% clean either.I LOVE Vatan! How much? Well lets just say, we came to Vatan for Valentine's Day a few years ago and this year - where we are going is always a "surprise" - we walked by Vatan Valentines Day 2015 and I saw the Elephant outside and started walking into Vatan. My husband asked "how did you know dinner was here" and I thought to myself, I didn't care - we were eating Here Tonight!I am blessed with many Gujarati friends who are incredible cooks. Over the years, eating their food I have become spoiled. When I moved away I was saddened... until we found Vatan. It is a prix-fixe AYCE and they serve you on platters in little dishes, very cute and more than appetizing *gobble gobble*So they give you a little of everything and you are free to order more of anything you like. EVERYTHING is good, if not Fantastic. Really authentic. The food is very fine and cooked to perfection. The ingredients are all cut small, for example the cauliflower is chopped up into manageable pieces, not like some restaurants which serve you the entire stalk. My favorites: App - Muthia, Sev Puri (you have to eat more than one!)Entree- Ful-cobi, Batakanu sak, BhajiDessert - Homemade Mango Ice Cream, Mmmm....Did I mention everything was Vegan? You won't miss the meat, I promise. * Oh Oh Spice Level! We eat very spicy in general. We always get Medium Spice. Be forewarned. Spice levels here rival "authentic" Thai spice levels. But you can always ask for your next plate to be spicier or milder.Don't know of any more perfect place to have a great assortment of veggie Indian food!  Wow! Everything about this place blew me away!  Decor is delightful, just enough spice, menu is awesome, service is super kind, and price is just right!  $32 for the pre-fix which includes almost everything your heart desires.  I  this place!  Coming back soon but on an empty stomach!Took friends who were visiting from out-of-town. They keep somewhat kosher and won't eat meat out. I ate one of the best Indian meals I've eaten in a long time. I would definitely go back and I plan on taking other people I know.Indeed authentic Rajasthani food & very homely style of serving. They start with a platter of starters; the muthia, Dahi puri, aloo dumplings being the best. Then on main course, I liked the kadhi with khidchi, puri with Aam ras, the dal, the aloo ki sabjee. For deserts the home made mango ice cream was tasty too. Everything is unlimited. It's 32$ plus taxes per plate but it's very good food. By the way, it's dinner only. Try once!!Food was okay but for the prices they charge definitely overpriced. What was most disappointing is the amount of food wastage and you can't take it to go. If the food is already on our plate why encourage waste- in 2016 this seems very irresponsible. There needs to be some happy medium - the amount of wastage of food at this restaurant must be ridiculous.I've traveled to many major metropolitan areas within the U.S., but never have I tasted such authentic Gujarati food, except in India, of course. This is the best. The service is excellent as well, and the ambience is second to none. I highly recommend it. I dined here several times when I lived in the area, and now only get to taste their food when I travel to NYC from LA.Absolutely fantastic all around. I'd say you get more than your money's worth --- truly a privilege to be able to have such a high quality, authentic Gujarati restaurant in Manhattan.Read some very mixed reviews on yelp so wanted to review for myself.  I have lived in India for over a year so consider myself a reasonably well informed judge of Indian food.This is one of the best Indian restaurants I've been to in Manhattan.  The staff were polite and attentive.  The food is delicious, non greasy, and plentiful.  The restaurant is pretty atmospheric and the tables definitely not too crowded together.  If you want to pay a little bit extra for a great Indian dining experience, I would definitely recommend Vatan.Sorry for the caps lock but this is THE BEST MEAL I'VE EVER HAD IN NEW YORK CITY.I'm vegetarian, Indian food is my favorite cuisine (Gujarati Indian food to be precise), and I love a good thali!This place is heaven sent, the food is incredibly delicious and worth every penny. You get unlimited refills and the atmosphere is amazing.*TIP*: Don't refill too much of the appetizer thali because you'll get full FAST. Wait to refill the entrees and make sure to get things EXTRA spicy! Stop by for dinner if you're ever in the area! Don't miss out on one of NYC's finest restaurants.Gujarati food is very unique and vegetarian-friendly. They have a phenomenal mix of sweet, sour and spicy that essentially caters to every craving you have at a given time. I walked into this restaurant met with a scene from village in Gujarat, India. It had the look and feel of a movie studio complete with seating areas that resembled a rural setting. The menu is fixed price $32 for unlimited food. Even the plates and utensils are pretty similar to what folks use in rural Gujarat. For the food part - the portions are pretty generous with unlimited refills. Before bringing out the appetizers, they bring out these crunchy savory wafers along with spicy condiments for food. In addition to this they also serve chaas (spicy buttermilk). Apparently the wafers are a precursor to the appetizers!  The appetizers show up in a massive plate and are pretty varied. All of them were pretty tasty. I could almost feel myself getting pretty full already. Next comes the main course along with pooris (deep-fried puffed savory bread) and 3 containers containing rice, kichdi (rice & lentil mix) and Khadi (which is like a gravy). In addition to these you have different vegetable dishes!  Insane quantity, without compromising quality!  In between the waitress comes frequently to the table and asks if I needed any more of anything. I somehow managed to chug through these as well. Next comes the desert - mango kulfi and masala tea. I thought I would never be able to finish this, but even these vanished!  A true testament to the taste and quality. Even though they charge you $32 per person, the quantity, variety and quality make it an extremely high-value meal. I will definitely be back and before going there again,  I will figure out a new strategy to finish all the items again.This place is a hit. The ambiance is like that of an Indian village with a fake tree, huge Ganesha idol, a well and many beautiful paintings. The food had an authentic Gujarati taste. It's a 'all you can eat' place with a fixed menu. The portions they serve in the first place are quite filling but you can always ask for more of any particular item. Service was polite and friendly. It's a bit on the expensive side so would recommend going there only when you are really hungry so that you don't feel like wasting both your food and money.Loved the appetizers more than the main course.  Option to adjust spice levels in the food.I am vegetarian  and love Indian food but this was not what I expected..the dishes are too small, food was   not hot enough and they make you take your shoes  off before u sit at the table? Why would I wanna smell everyones dirty socks all around me? I have been to many Curry Hill Indian restaurants and this one was really disappointing..Wow, Vatan was not what I was expecting at all... We got a recommendation from an Indian friend so that was enough for us. There is a huge golden elephant on the outside of the building so you cannot miss it easily.Once inside, you pass through a narrow corridor which suddenly opens up into a high-ceilinged dining room with murals on every wall, various eclectic seating options, and a ginormous tree climbing up one wall. You definitely don't feel like you're in Manhattan anymore and the atmosphere is really quite majestic if you're into that type of thing. They offer a set menu, which is genius really because you get to try all kinds of food that you probably cannot pronounce and would normally avoid on an Indian menu since you have no idea what it could be.Everything is vegetarian, and the portions are very adequate for sampling purposes with the bonus of being able to order unlimited quantities of whatever your tastebuds enjoyed the most. We barely made it through the generous sample portions that are customary with the prix fixe menu, and we really enjoyed 95% of what we tried!The hospitality and the service were stellar. The cocktails were tasty and well made.One final word of caution: wear your stretchy pants.Excellent menu. Food quality is great. They could cut down on the servings so there is no waste. Heaven for vegetarians!Average food. Nome of the items were that tasty that any one on our table of four wanted to try again. All of this accompanied with amazingly slow service means that we are unlikely to visit the restaurant anytime soon. The ambience and the setting is the only thing worth writing home about.Toooo much food!!Be sure you have enough space in your stomach to be able to try everything. If you are not fond of Gujarati of Marwari style food, then you won't appreciate it much.Compared to other buffets in the city, this one is very pricey but very good quality.The ambience is unique...Will take you back to India....Do Do Do call for the aam ras (mango pulp)Great ambiance, awesome food, good service. Definitely worth. Try, be sure to be hungry or else you might find it abundance of food.Good ambience, great service, food is not the best Indian I have eaten.Not worth the price if you grew up eating Indian thalis. The appetizers were quite good. Main course is disappointing and lacks imagination. The seating is awkward, especially for elderly folks.This place was AWESOME! The Gujarati food tasted so authentic and was all fresh. Came here for Father's Day and it was amazing. We had all you can eat option. I know you can order as much as you can eat but they give you so much already we could barely get through it! We left feeling so stuffed. The ambiance is great. You feel like you're in a little village. From the fake huts to the giant tree and the picturesque walls- it wasn't over the top but kept up a great vibe. Music was just subtle so we didn't have to scream over it. We sat in one of the booths that require you to take your shoes off. It was so much fun! Everything was very clean. Most importantly the staff was friendly, quick, and efficient. We never had to ask for anything twice. I will most definitely be visiting again!The food was bad and in small portions.  They even messed up the ice cream at the end.  The good was over priced, and it sucked.  Would not recommend.Gujarati food tastes much better than what this place serves up unfortunately.  The food is bland, some is just reheated frozen foods. I like the concept behind the type of service this place offers.  It's a prix fixe menu and there is plenty of food offered! Just wish it tasted better.Awesome service and great variety of appetizers and entrees in the fixed price menu.  Make sure you go there with a big appetite.If you love Gujarati food then this place is heaven for you. The best part of this restaurant is variety in the entire menu that too in vegetarian food. They have lot of options in appetizers, the batatawada, chat were amazing. The main course was delicious too however I was disappointed to know that there are only 2-3 options for desserts. The aamras was okay ( just mango pulp).Service was good. They have nice decor portraying Indian culture.Terrible experience! I went there with my in laws and it was so embarrassing. The food was stale and cold, the prices were so high, and overall quality of their service was terrible too. I just wasted a half grand on something that's worth 50 bucks.We came here for Diwali (Indo New Year) with our neighbors. Basically I was told to fast all day so I can devour during dinner, and we were eating pretty early so it wasn't a big deal. I really had no idea what I was missing. My mom's home cooked food, that's what. Vatan filled that gap for me. I couldn't have been happier with all the courses and I loved how everything was served. The place is also really nicely decorated. Side note: the service is really great too.Best Indian vegetarian food ever!!! Very close to the authentic Indian food. The service is pretty good!Really amazing service. Among the best I've experienced. The $32 several course meal is well worth it. So many different tastings, they'll bring you more of anything you'd like seconds on, and includes tea and dessert. The wine by the glass is reasonably priced and good. Must go place!You'll find the most courteous hosts at Vatan. My friend and I sat there for 3 hours... It was closing time but still they didn't rush us out. Great understanding of how to create a comfortable environment. The food was great. Felt like eating home food. It just didn't feel like a restaurant. That was the best part. Also, didn't spend any time figuring what to order, it's a pre fixed menu. It's a LOT of food. You can ask for more if you have the stomach, it's all-you-can-eat!!! The place is kinda large compared the typical NYC restaurants. Since the menu is the fixed, it'll be a while before I go again. Only drawback. Also coz I'm gonna need a year to digest the food I ate today! Must visit if in the mood for vegetarian, homely food.Really really good Indian food! They had plenty of vegan options for us, which was really sweet. The waitress was also really nice to us, though at the end we had to wait for like 15 minutes before she came back to give us the check. It is pretty pricey, but its all you can eat so it pays off. Unfortunately, for some reason we got filled up SOOO QUICK, so it didn't exactly pay out for us. We have no idea how that happened since we love Indian food and eat tons of food, but we could not order any seconds.Vatan is a GREAT place to eat Gujrati food! My wife and I went there to get dinner yesterday. The $30 fix-price deal may sound a bit expensive at first, but it really is worth it.The staff are all incredibly friendly and welcoming, starting right from the manager who seats you when you walk in. All the food tastes like REAL Indian food (the samosas could be a little better) and the whole experience leaves with a really pleasant feeling.TIP: ASK your server for the Aamras. It is not served by default - you have to ASK for it. Please do! It is delicious!We really love this place and is totally worth the $$. Only thing is, don't try and be healthy when you're there! Enjoy the food guilt-free!If you haven't been here, you should! I know I'll be back!Just go! Fabulous food, great service. Excellent price. And the design of the restaurant makes it a unique experience. Even if you've never had Gujarati food all the better. You will love getting to try a new type of Indian food that's amazing. And if you're very familiar with the Gujarati food you will be pleased with the quality. You will have found one of New York's hidden gems!Went to this place for my birthday/thanksgiving dinner (they were on the same day) and loved it! The ambience is fantastic, and the service is amazing. It was one of the best meals I have had in a long time. Being Gujarati, I didn't have any questions about the food, and it was extremely delicious and well made. My favorite appetizer was the muthiya and I loved the Keri nu ras on the main course. I would recommend asking for a mild spice level on the main course even if you are Indian. The appetizers come with a set spice level, and I would have probably preferred a milder level on them too. All things considered it was a memorble way birthday dinner!Loved the samosa, the fried pepper, the rice and the spinach.Great food, and will accommodate vegan requests as well. Fun for groups.The prix fixe meal at this restaurant is all-you-can-eat, but there are so many dishes to try that I was barely able to finish even the minimum that they gave me. Everything was vegetarian, but it was a delicious and filling meal, and I doubt meat eaters would leave dissatisfied.The interior is dimly lit and decorated to resemble an Indian village, complete with a fake tree. It's a little kitschy, but I do appreciate that the tables are well-spaced from one another and you feel like you have some privacy due to the walls between the booths. They do ask you take off your shoes to sit at some of the booths.Best delicious authenticate Gujarati Indian food served affectionately and lots of smile. Setting and decor will make you feel you are sitting in a village in Gujarat. Tables,walls ceiling all enhances beauty of place.Great place for an abundance of vegetarian food! When you walk into Vatan, you don't need to worry about what to order, your only decisions for the night will be what to drink and how spicy you want the food. From there you just enjoy your 3 course meal.This is a themed restaurant and it's set up to look like an Indian village, it may come across as cheesy but what Vatan does well with the theme is giving every table privacy. This is a welcome change after so many nyc restaurants that make you feel like you're dining with the tables next to you. Finally, before I visited Vatan, I read a lot of negative reviews from people upset with it being called Gujarati food when authentic home made Gujarati food is so good. This is an unfair standard, restaurant food can never be compared to the food you grew up eating and loving. For me and my group of 8, Vatan did not disappoint. I will be going back for more.Terrible service. Our food came out one at a time, with each person getting their meals ten minutes apart. They filled our water once, to a quarter full nonetheless. I asked for more water, which I never got. When we got the check they rudely said, "cash only." Cannot recommendIt's rare to go out to an Indian restaurant and say the food is authentic. I was there for dinner and was pleasantly surprised, and will be there again.Took Bansari here during her first visit. Ok food but great variety. And good service. Must go place for vegetarian food lovers.We used to like this place earlier, but lately quality is just gone down the hill. Food was extremely oily, you could even smell the carrots and chilies they give were stale, so I refrained from eating them. But since dinner last night, me and my husband are having severe pain and gas in stomach with diarrhea and vomitting. It's very shameful that this place is not maintaining quality of food.All you can eat Indian food. Three courses consisting of an appetizer, entree, and dessert round, but you can eat to your hearts content. Well spiced and seemed very authentic. Vegetarian only, and for a fellow meat lover, I was not missing meat as there was an incredible variety of flavor and dishes. Especially loved the entree and dessert round. For those with sensitive palates to spice, mild may be your best option as medium sent me over the edge a tad. Loved the entire experience.Come hungry leave satisfied (and full)!  Fantastic pure vegetarian food joint.  The food is Western Indian food (Gujarati thali style).  They have great appetizers, good entrees and great desserts. Appetizers are dahi puri, kala chana, muthia, batata wada, party samosas, mirchi bhajiya. If you're not a heavy spice eater tell them to go medium spicy on entree. You can request them for aam ras also but it's straight Swad Aam Ras from can so nothing great ... but not bad with puri.  The dessert is mango ice cream and fantastic masala tea (cardamom infused)!  All in all, great ambience and good food even for non-vegetarians who'd be surprised to eat great veggie food.My friend Chuck recommended this place and I admit that I was reluctant because nothing on the menu grabbed me. My husband did not want to try it because he loves meat too much to think about spending $30 on a meal that did not include it. Still, we went and were pleasantly surprised!The concept of bringing out everything on the menu and just letting you eat it all is dangerous for the waistline but it meant we did not have to worry about ordering one thing we might not like and feel like we wasted our money. The appetizer was a little too spicy for me so I asked that my entree be mild and I still enjoyed that. I was stuffed by the time the entree came however so I am surprised I managed to eat any more.I do have one complaint. We felt as if the server was abrupt and unhappy. She promised at the start of the meal to explain what each item was when delivered but she only explained when asked and then rushed through the explanations.Still, I would recommend this place to my friends. I left happy and full and even my "every meal requires meat!" husband was very satisfied!I really love this place.  It is my favorite dining experience in New York City with an amazing Vegetarian menu that is special and different every time.  Amazing ambiance and I love getting to try soMany dishes.  I'm no expert in Indian cuisine but when I first  moved to the city years ago this place really helped me get my feet wet.Delicious food, beautiful and special place. I particularly love the appetizer assortment. You should like spicy though because even the mild option is still quite spicy. One of my favorite Indian places in town and a great place to bring out-of-town visitors!There are only a small section of people who get through a vegetarian meal, unless ofcourse they are vegetarian. Vatan has some really elaborate decor, trying to mimic an Indian village setting, cushioned low seats and all to ensure you sit the way you would sit cross legged on the floor. The food is a prix fixe with service ensuring you get seconds and thirds if you must of things you like. The appetizers mostly deep fried are amazing, and there is a wide representation of a gujurati thali. Its authentic but definitely the spiciness has been brought down. The main course is also amazing will push you into food coma, and totally worth the calories. Give this a try as I think there is fwe other options to try a really well made gujju thali in NYC.You won't miss the meat at this restaurant at all and I'm glad that the menu is fixed. The appetizer has a variety of options with the portions just right and you can re order anything you want. The Chana Masala, Sev Puri and Samosas were my favorite appetizers. The chutneys that were brought out are also a must. For the entree, I loved the Puri, Khadi, Khichdi, Chole and Tor Dal. To finish off the homemade mango ice cream and chai sealed the deal. Vatan is now a  must-go-to anytime I am in NYC.All you can eat, Vegetarian Indian food.Wow.This place is super good.  And the interior is decorated to look like an Indian piazza, complete with an enormous fake tree, and several fake monkeys.The food was fantastic, and the service was gracious.  I'll be back.An unusual experience the first time around. It's a prix fixe vegetarian 3-course meal. Initially it was homesickness that drove us to this place - to get a fix for authentic Indian food when there was no inclination to cook at home. Have been there a few times now and the pleasure of the abundance of food and varieties reduces with each visit. It's a great pick for vegetarians and vegans.All-You-Can-Eat! All-You-Can-Eat! But it's vegetarian, can it be good? Yes it can!So there's only one choice on the menu: $29.95 for everything (well, except for drinks). Everything is brought out to you, but you don't have to finish everything. But but but, it was my first time. I wanted to try everything. So here goes:Drinks:- Lassi: Lassi, not Lesie. Sweet cooling yogurt shake. Yummy.Appetizers:- Chana Masala - (beans, coriander, onions) yummy- Muthia - (steamed flour with spinach) meh- Khaman - (wheat flour cake) bland- Mirchi Bhajia - (hot peppers with masala) too spicy for me- Sev Puri - (fried bread thing with yogurt) very cooling; great countering spicy- Samosas - (light, tiny crispy triangles) the most delicious appetizer on the menu- Batatavada - (potato balls) i like theirs better than my sister's =P- Ragda Patis - (potato patty in sauce) I think I liked this a lot too. Must be the potatoes...Thali:- Toor Dal - (dal curry) it was okay, tasted fun with rice and puri- Ful-Cobi - (cauliflower curry) tastes good- Batakanu Sak - (potatoes) mmmm, potatoes- Chole - (chickpeas) okay....- Bhaji - (spinach and corn) this was awesome. I wanna put corn in all my spinach now...- Puri - (puffed bread) I have so much fun eating this *poke poke*- Papadam - (lentil crisps) these were addicting. You can crunch on them all day dipping it in random chutneys...- Kheer - (rice pudding) I'm not a rice pudding fan, but apparently, this was awesome...- Aam Rus - (mango pulp) I'm allergic, but I tried anyway. This is the most fresh delicious mango pulp juice I've ever tasted. Like eating a fresh ripe mango but without the mess.Sides:- Pulao - (rice and peas) I love pulao, must have a good portion- Khicdi - (sticky sweet rice) very interesting, dunno what to think of it yet- Kadhi - (yogurt curry) tastes good with the Khicdi, to my surpriseDesserts:- Ice cream - I think it was mango, but it was so fresh and delicious- Masala Chai (tea) - I don't like Chai, but this was very tolerable, not too strong at all...Verdict: We need to do a UYE there =PDestination place if you are looking for a eventful evening on spl occasions...we went there for our anniversary and we really really enjoyed being at Vatan. First of all we had a very warm welcome from the staff and the cuisine was very well explained. So its a fixed thali system here so need not bother or think thru what to order...the food fair starts with an assortment of starters very well selected and perfectly done..then the main course and offcourse light dessert and hot cuppa chai....overall awesome place soulful food and divine experience...not to forget an ambience reflecting indian village and culture...must go for spl occasionsNever knew a vegetarian restaurant could be so popular outside India!Amazing, authentic all you can eat food, Elegant Indian village like ambience..I wish I skipped breakfast and lunch at home before I came to vatan for dinner as there's so much variety and quantity to eat!!!Definitely going back again.Best Indian vegetarian in NYC.You will not be disappointed. If you like Indian veg or are willing to be a bit adventurous, this is the place for you. You get to try a little of everything and the waitstaff is very helpful in explaining what it all is and what is spicy.Make sure to ask for seconds, thirds, etc, on any of the dishes you like the most. No fork? No problem! Don't be afraid to use your hands. Just expect that you might be seated a table where you need to sit down with your shoes off. Yes, it's a bit pricey but, it's really not the kind of place you're going every night, so treat yourself.Amazing food set in an Indian village setting. You want more food? No problem, they'll bring you more of whatever delicious item you enjoyed.No need to decide on an item from the menu. You get EVERYTHING on the menu! It's all included. It's like being in the audience of Oprah - EVERYBODY GETS MORE FOOOOOOOOOOODDD.Deliciousness. 5 stars. Go eat at Vatan.Vatan is a nice place with great food. Multiple courses involving trays of all-vegetarian food will keep you full and happy. I liked the mango lassi to cut the heat. The service is friendly and the decor is really cool - dimly lit with cozy booths.This is by far the best Indian restaurant that my family and I have been to with delicious food, great service, and amazing ambiance. The two owners were extremely personable and really valued their customers options and thoughts. The restaurant decor was authentic and you really feel like you are in India. Most importantly, the food is authentic and the 3 course experience is definitely a 5 star. My favorites included the sav puri, palak, kichidi, and the mango ice cream. I would recommend that the Vatan experience is a must-do for all.It doesn't really look like a huge amount of food because it is all very small dishes, but believe me, it is a huge amount of food!  I'm a big guy and it was way too much even without seconds.  My suggestion is between the appetizer and main course stand up for a second, stretch, take a leisurely stroll to the restroom, take a lap around the very pretty restaurant, and no matter how far away you live, plan to walk home after.  The food is by-and-large delicious, and it's a very complete meal including masala chai and dessert.  Service is warm, helpful, and welcoming.The decor was amazing and felt like we were sat in a havelli in India. The food was very good and very traditional Gujrati thali (I should know, I'm Gujrati!). The biggest downside and the reason this is not 5 star for me is that they do not let you pack any leftovers.. even if you got no re-fill. I always feel bad about throwing away food, and this restaurant does just that... some people have taken advantage in the past and ordered re-fills to take home and have completely ruined it for the rest of us who genuinely dont want it to go to waste. We suggested they at least donate the leftovers to homeless shelters in NY.....to which we got no response from the manager. Massive shame since Indian people in general are NEVER about wasting food. Fix it Vatan!love this place... makes me go again and again when I crave gujarati food. A little pricey, but you wont eat for 2 days after.We love the portion of the food and the variety. Our serve staff were very pleasant and polite. She explained every dish in our prefix and we were in and out within an hour. The seating are spacious and privacy guaranteed. Deco was nice, intimate and classy. They have the cleanest bathroom I've ever seen in NYC.As much as I enjoyed my dining experience in Vatan, a $29.95 prefix vegetarian all you can eat Indian buffet is pricey in the sense that they serve all-season vegetables in the cooking style(s) of one region of India. Cauliflowers, peas, garbanzo beans, spinach, chickpeas, yogurt, freshly made bread, and so on. While a $30pp Japanese buffet or Chinese buffet may wow you with their variety, freshness of food, and different styles of cooking, Vatan offers only Gujarati style. I guess the price covers more of the deco, rent and service than the food itself.I usually do not write reviews for restaurants.  That being said, i am very confused by all of these stellar reviews. First of all the food which is important at any restaurant was lacking in taste, was cold, service was extremely slow and most of all they give you very small portions every time you ask for something. This was a terrible experience.I think it's the most authentic Indian food I have ever had!!! Service was OK but 5 stars for the taste and quality of the food!Great Gujju experience. People are really nice. Food is just simply delicious. Great way of serving decent sized portions at first and then asking for any repetitions so you don't end up wasting lot of food. Only cons that comes to mind.. is the drinks seemed kinda not up to the mark (could be coz its a Gujju restaurant and Gujarat is meant to be a dry state that does not encourage alcohol consumption).Vatan is now off my list. We had worst experience for dinner on 25th December 2014. We had to wait for our entree for over an hour. No one was informing us why and how long. Our server never even came up after appetizers. When we asked some other server, she was behaving as if it is our problem. No one was even remotely apologetic. Apparently, their kitchen was backed up due to something and entire restaurant was waiting for food, some people over 90 minutes!!! What was most annoying was no one cared to inform anyone. And the food after it arrived, was mediocre. what a disappointment. And after all that, they had the audacity to charge us 18% gratuity!!!! 18% for what? OMG! The worst service, super rude staff and ok food. Never going back again!!!!What a rip off! Highly overrated restaurant and this is not even gujarathi food.  The dal was not even close to gujarathi dal.  They serve ice cream for dessert.  Are you kidding me? They will fill you up with lousy appetizers that don't even taste good. The samosas are actually of the frozen kind that is deep fried.  Stay away from this place.  Never again.No walk in's so be bewareThe decor is great but the food was ok,  Definitely an experience but wouldnt really repeat it.Great food for a great price. You get to try TONS of Indian dishes, and they will bring you more of anything you want. Great ambiance too. I fell in love with the place during grad school and now we always try to stop here when we are in NYC.this place specializes in gujarati vegetarian food, and i just happen to be gujarati - so listen up ;)no but really, this place is pretty good, though not the best (momma's cooking is better than vatan) but when you're like 3000 miles from home, this'll do those nights of desperation.and even if you aren't gujarati and missing homecooking on the occasion like me, this is a fun and unique experience to try, albeit somewhat pricey. it's almost like a buffet, but all the food comes to you, and you get to try everything! they start with a platter of appetizers and then you move on to a large plateful of entrees. there is some choice in what you get (pooris vs rotis), however, they essentially let you try everything so there really isn't much "choosing." you also get different "soups" (dhar/kurdhi) that's eaten with rice. and if you aren't already stuffed, you get some dessert as well. all of this for $30 isn't sounding so bad, huh? so get yo'self over there!ps - you can get refills on any/everything!pps - this is NOT like your typical north indian restaurant - no chicken tikka masala, no naan, etc. gujarati food is a totally different ball game when it comes to indian cuisine, that although shares similarities with north indian cooking (as you have curries accompanied with some sort of carb - roti or poori in this case), the taste and flavor is distinctively different.I cannot rave enough about this place. Authentic food with fabulous decor. You walk from the streets of nyc into a warm little village in India. The whole experience is amazing! A vegetarian's paradise and anyone who loves gujju-food. The food. Oh goodness. I've tried coming here at least twice if not thrice. I can never finish the whole thali. So much good food.Highly recommend it.Having been here multiple times, my experience last night was not good from a service perspective. One of our party joined late, and our server made a big fuss about serving the main course (and did not serve it ultimately), but still charged us for the full plate. Also, the showed they were doing us a favor by giving aamras and the service was very indifferent.While I'll go here again, I'll stay away from our server yesterday.While the idea of village set-up, unlimited food, giving us everything on the menu is all very great, me and my wife didn't like the taste/quality of the food. We were so thrilled to find this place and decided to go there even though we found it overpriced.  Our expectations were probably so high and the restaurant didn't even meet half our expectations. The dhokla was mushy  and gave a bad taste in the end. Seemed like the kheer was presented with pepper on the top? Or maybe it was something else.. We didn't like that either. The sev-puri was good in the appetizers but everything else could have been much better. Coming to entries, the poories were good, but it had no proper side to go with it.. The green based curry had huge amount of oil/ghee/dalda dripping through it. The channa masala wasn't great either.  Alu based curry wasn't edible enough for me and so was the gobi. All the entree items had too much oil according to me and the taste-wise weren't good either. The mango ice cream and chai were probably the best on the menu. It's probably worth trying once, but this restaurant will get no recommendation from me nor will I go there ever again! While having 20 varieties is all great, the quality of each of the items is equally important. Hope Vatan understands that. Oh wait, you should eat the same 20 varieties everytime you go there.. Nah!This place rocks. I've been here three times for three completely different types of dinners (co-worker outing, anniversary, and vegetarian friend in town), and each time Vatan more than pleased all who came out.The main selling points of Vatan are:1. Unique cuisine: yes the food is very good in my opinion, but it's also hard to find purely vegetarian cuisine that's this good and diverse.2. No decision-making: dinner is always a prix fix where you get a taste of everything on the menu.3. Massive amount of food: seriously, be careful with getting too many refills of anything; it ends up being quite a lot of food in the end. I continuously underestimate just how much...4. Bottomless: so as mentioned in the last point, you can get a refill of any item they bring you. So basically, if you love three dishes on your plate but hate the rest (or find them too spicy or whatever), just go to town on those three dishes and disregard the rest.5. Great ambiance: the bottom floor is designed to look like an Indian village. Normally I find that kind of thing to be a bit corny, but here it really helped to create an intimate and relaxed atmosphere throughout my meal.I see myself coming back to this place many more times in the future.We were a large group and were seated immediately upon arrival (prior reservation). Extremely warm and hospitable staff. Good is unbeatable. Absolutely fantastic ambience and experience.Absolutely loved this restaurant. When a couple friend came into town I was very disappointed to hear they had become vegan (I wanted them to try Korean BBQ). When they recommended this place, I became even more disillusioned - I figured it would be all the vegetables that I did not want to eat as a kid. Boy was I wrong.Appetizers were first, think of being able to eat unlimited amounts of all the appetizers on an Indian restaurant's menu - but exponentially better tasting as it has the detail and quality of a single serving. Then came the next two courses, which was actually combined as one - phenomenal quality and all you can eat, man was I satisfied. Essentially you get a huge platter of single serve dishes with puri and papad with two different rices in the middle. Whatever you want more of, your waiter will bring out. Great model.Warning, come hungry. Our server was very (playfully) disappointed in our lack of asking for seconds. When we did ask for seconds of certain things, she brought us two portions extra worth - I guess she wanted to make sure we were getting our moneys worth. The service is what makes this place a truly pleasant experience. I wanted to give this place 5 stars SO badly. But I was disappointed the dessert was just tea and ice cream rather than a sampling of Indian sweets. With two bottles of wine, the meal became a bit pricey as well, but that I can overlook for a truely awesome experience. It's unfortunate I have to deduct a star for a restaurant which is going on my top 5 for NYC list.I will be returning tonight!The food and service were amazing!  There is simply too much food, and it is temping to eat until you explode.  I tried.Please make sure you visit Vatan on an empty stomach--so much food.  I have going to Vatan for years as it was recommended a few years ago from a colleague of mine that was born in India.  The décor is awesome.  The food is great.  The mango lassi...to die for., the service is always perfect--just the right amount of attention.I would recommend it to anyone that loves Vegetarian  Indian food.The variety of food was amazing and it's a blessing, every once in a while, for a vegetarian Indian (especially Gujju). It's slightly on the pricier side but is totally worth it. It comes with a starter's course, a main course and then desserts and certainly has a vast variety of dishes to justify it's price. I think anyone who likes Indian will leave with satisfied taste buds and a full stomach!Food - 5Ambience - 4 (it's set in the backdrop of rural India but I feel they can spice it up a bit with some costumes for their staff and some art works and music)Service - 5 (courteous staff and quite prompt. Since it's a bottomless meal they just bring anything at the slightest hint of you wanting it)Value for money - 4.5This review is NOT for FOOD.. We arrived at the restaurant around 9:20 PM since yelp and their website they close at 10 AM. They could not accommodate 2 people...we were heart broken since we had heard great things about this place. So if you plan to go our for late dinner after long day of touring around NY call them before you arrive.I want to give this place 4-5 stars but I painfully am forced to to stick to only 3 since even though they have 4-5 star ambiance (Indian village look), service but yet there food definitely has something in it which leaves you bloated. Perhaps it might be excessive baking soda in the fried items (and a lot of times are fried), but rest assured, the food taste is top quality. Now if only they take care of what I wrote above is when they see me becoming a regular!!I enjoyed my dinner here.  I didn't expect that the only option was a prix-fixe and that I'd walk/roll out feeling like a fat slob for stuffing myself beyond measure.The food was good, the service ok, and the decor interesting.  The restaurant itself is quite large, but only has a handful of tables - not the best use of the space, but it didn't feel crowded, which was nice.Sumptuous Vegetarian Indian StyleDefinitely wash your feet and change your socks before you come here! You'll be much more comfortable when you're asked to take your shoes off and sit on the floor. This is one of those places where you'll love the decor and you'll love the food if you like Indian Vegetarian food. Not sure if they still have the all you can eat, but you'll want to try as many varieties as possible. If you have a friend who likes hot and spicy you're in for a treat.Date Rating: 6Pick up Scale: 1Strong Suggestion: have some tea.Awesome food in a wonderful setting. Very well spaced out too. Has a village kind of a setup. The appetizers are more or less likely to fill you up before the main course :)Unlimited delicious food, you should visit.Really fun - especially for a group outing. The décor is fun and the inside definitely transports you to an amusement park version of India. The food is prix-fixe, all-you-can-eat, you choose your level of spiciness and arrives in courses. You definitely get your money's worth and it's tasty. The servers are very good at explaining what you're eating and offer suggestion on how to eat it.Will definitely go back and bring more friends.As an Indian-food-loving vegetarian, when I read about Vatan I had to add it to my itinerary for a work trip to New York.  When I arrived alone the host didn't blink an eye and seated me right away.  Unfortunately, the only available table was one of the "on display" tables under the baobab tree (most of the tables are semi-secluded booths),  It looks like those two tables are on a platform, and I was concerned what sitting cross-legged for an entire meal would do to my hips, but there are hidden wells under the tables so you're just sitting at a regular table, thank goodness.  Be sure to wear cute socks because you'll take off your shoes (mine were yellow-striped).Dinner is an appetizer thali, an entree thali, and dessert.  It's just a little dab of everything but it adds up--there is no way I'd be able to finish everything!  Both courses have their standouts.  In the appetizer, there was some sort of potato cake and lentil thing that was a little bit spicy and super-incredibly delicious.  There was also a yogurt haystack of some kind  that I couldn't leave alone.  Pro tip:  drizzle some of the yogurt into the spicy lentil thing.  The potato balls were too good not to eat.My top pick on the entree tray was the chickpeas, but the cauliflower was a very close second.  The puri are in a league of their own, perfectly puffed and hot from the fryer.Be sure to try to the condiments--their cilantro sauce is much spicier than other places, in a fairly magnificent way.  And eat at least one slice of fried garlic!The mango ice cream and chai tea for dessert were a lovely way to end.Although the food was absolutely divine, the service is what really earns the five stars.  The proprietess brought my food and she was incredibly sweet.  Since I was eating alone, she lingered a moment to chat with me when she stopped by the table.  She asked me which dishes were my favorite and kept offering to bring me more of those (which I had to politely decline--no way could I have eaten more!).  Her pacing was perfect for a solo diner--she gave me breathing room between courses, but didn't leave me sitting there twiddling my thumbs for too long.This goes on the permanent list for my visits to NYC.Prepare to come with an appetite! So. Much. Food. The exterior of the building has no windows, the interior is beautifully decorated. You're led to your table and asked to remove your shoes. The menu is already fixed with 3 courses, and you can pick your level of spicy. The only thing you chose is your dessert. I was only slightly disappointed at the quality of the food.The service is superb.This place was amazing. Go hungry. Very, very hungry. Service was excellent, you will receive a ton of food which you will not be able to finish. Also, you think you can handle spicy food, huh? Then go right ahead and eat that pepper looking at you lovingly from the plate. Go ahead, I dare ya. Just don't cry in your chai tea later, like a little bitch.Want to go on a vacation to India, take a trip to Vatan. You will be transported in time and place for sure.The walls are painted from ceiling to floor and the whole interior is decorated to give a village setting with dim lights. You can choose to sit on a slab/ a table or in a hut. How cool!Best of all you will not have to decide what to eat. Just eat  what is served and it iis unlimited. Home made mango ice cream for dessert and spice tea is worth the trip for me. The waitress are dressed in traditional attire and greeted well adding to the ambience of your fine dining experience. Why is it so costly? Aren't vegetables more expensive than meat. We all know that. But don't let this from stopping you to enjoy this place. It's one a kind place in NYC.Awesome gujarati cuisine. Everything is so tasty. Nothing is too spicy or sweet. Slightly expensive. Ambience is best.Had a really wonderful time at this restaurant. Food was excellent, loved the all you can eat- although portions were so good the first time around that I couldn't eat anything after the first dish. I left my sunglasses there- I called, and they're still holding them for me. I really should go pick those up...Very good, friendly service. Cool decor. Definitely recommend!This restaurant only serves a set 'sampler' menu, although they were able to accommodate my gluten free friend.  The servings are huge and they even give complimentary seconds.  All is delicious and definitely a place to return to.  The decor is fantastic and adds to the atmosphere and dining experience.This place serve authentic indian food, by authentic I mean like homestyle(mom style), less oily, proper amount of spices and flavorful.NOT HUNGRY DON'T GO. its a fix price and unlimited food place so you eat a lot.Appetizers are amazing, they will give you a proper qunatity of apetizers so you dont get full for main course, but obviously we dont understand that and order more as its unlimited.Main course was also amazing, puri was the softest I ever had. Dahl is on the sweeter side which I dont like.Amazing mango ice cream please save some room for this.Overall really good place, but go only when hungry else you end up paying a lot.Great food! remember to go there with a HUnGRY stomach. It's delicious food with unlimited refills so unless you skipped the previous meal there is no way to go through all the courses.I had masala lemonade for drink which was great. The chai and saunf In the end are a superb touch!Decent gujrati food. But not fantastic at the price point. I expected fresher, more wholesome, and better quality at the price point of about $40 per persion (with tax and gratuity). Good parts to the meal - the muthiya and dhokla from the appetizer course, pooris that didn't have any oil on them, and perfectly made khadi. The so-so portions were the underwhelming sabjis, the tinned mango pulp (really...can't have fresh kesar at this price in the summer?), and the missing teplas.Fewer, better made items, with possibly a rotating menu or a choice of fixed menus would make this place better.Finally an Indian restaurant that serves dinner traditional thali style (i.e. with lots of bowls of different food on a big platter). Love it - you get to taste so many different things! And all so good in Vatan's case specifically: loved the chickpeas, the potatoes, the lentils, and all the other stuff I don't remember except it was delicious. And all the previous stuff I mentioned was way more complex than what it sounded like, with delicious mixes of spice and magic. Perfect for a vegetarian escapade - and with excellent wine prices too.they know what they are doing. come with a very empty stomach (fixed menu with free refills).Excellent pure veg Indian food...Gujarati to be exact. Different selection of dishes and preparation than you will see at any other Indian restaurant in the city, so definitely a must try! As a few others have said, make sure you have a very good appetite when you go, because the quantities are endless - that's right, $30/person gets you three courses (appetizer, entree and dessert) with unlimited refills of each. Overall, that's about 20 different varieties of dishes served thali style (in small bowls). Decor is pretty cool with Indian murals on the walls. The space is huge and could fit easily twice as many tables, but it's nice that they instead leave it spacious. We went late on a weekday night and the place was dead, but still a great experience. Go hungry so that you do it justice!!! I didn't even have room left for ice cream at the end.Hands down best gujju food in the US! Just starve all day before going here or else you will repent missing out on second servings. This place is a must go for me every time I visit Manhattan. Definitely at a minimum, worth the price. Can't wait to visit again!Unlimited amounts of amazing Indian food? Yes!Granted I'm biased, since the food tastes a lot like my mom's, I think it says something that it is that authentic. Definitely come hungry, as it's hard enough to finish all the courses they bring you. Let them know before they bring out the next tray if you can't/won't eat something, because nothing's worse than wasting perfectly good food (the menu lists all the items, and you can let them know if you're allergic to something). The place is spacious and a fun place to go as a group. The service was great, they were so sweet!So good. Went there for my birthday, and had the whole experience in taking off my shoes and sitting down at the table was great.Most of the food was good and they're dietary friendly. If you are allergic or don't want to eat certain things you tell them and they take out all foods that have those ingredients. It's great.Spice is also asked. How spicy do you want it? It's too good.Vatan rules1.Come hungry.2. Do not eat anything but baby carrots and apples before dining here3. Wear stretchy pants  4. Do not order seconds of the apps no matter how bad you want to5. Eat the kichdi n khadi with your hands6. Leave happy and ridiculously fullLove this place. Great service, well priced and yummySo good. I love the Indian drink with mango.  I don't know what the dish is but it had cashews in a delicious sauce with hints of spice and heat. Mmmmmmm tasty.  Their desert that consists of 3 balls of fried pancake like dough in a honey syrup is OMG! TRY THIS PLACE.I came here with another couple and the 4 of us had a great time! The food quality and quantity was insane. First of all - come here starving, not just hungry. The food flow is non-stop. Anything at all that you want more of - just ask, it comes to you on the fly. Our party wasn't so keen on the shoe removal to sit down but... we all felt pretty comfortable after the fact so no big deal really. Our waitress was great, she explained each thing on your plate and answered any questions you had, with a smile!You had to roll us all out by the time we were leaving, seriously we ate that much. I don't even think I eat like that for Thanksgiving... I really appreciated the 10min time between appetizer and entree to let things settle a little (before stuffing even more food into my mouth). I do have food allergies and they were quite accommodating with that. We had  plans to go out for drinks after BUT we forfeited the rest of the night because we were just too full and tired to drink a single damn thing.I have been here twice, my first time being last year and my second time being a few days ago.The decor is entertaining and it's nice that the tables are very far apart and spacious.The first time I came the food tasted fresh even though it is not made to order.  The food tasted good as well.  I would give four stars if i was just rating on that visit.The second time I came here the food really did taste like it had been made some time before.  Some of the food was barely warm. The appetizers felt a little soggy.  When you are being served something like pakora it needs to be fresh given its fried nature and this definitely tasted like it had been made before we got to the restaurant. The chole was good but I do tend to favor it.The paneer was decent and the dal was ok but the food just really didn't stand out.  It didn't taste quite as flavorful as I had remembered but more importantly the lack of freshness for some of the food really impacted my enjoyment. I didn't notice a lot of spices except the heat level was a little too much.  The waitress made a show of asking what heat level we wanted (like they were making our food as we ordered it) and when we got our food my food (requested mild) was just as hot as my friend's medium.If you want an Indian buffet then this place may be for you.  If you come before 5:30 you can essentially get a dinner buffet for under $20.For me, I think this place seems like it is just going through the motions.I eat at a vegetarian buffet regularly in Orlando, FL (Khasiyat) that beats this place hands down.  Maybe I have just been spoiled.I don't think I will be coming back.For almost a decade from the year it opened until I left NYC in 2001 this was my hands down favorite NYC restaurant.  It 's a great space, setting a mood without being corny. Staff is gracious and great about judging the customers knowledge of the cuisine and adjusting their spiel accordingly. The food is excellent, a regional variety of Indian food a lot of diners aren't familiar with (even now but definitely in the 1990s), light on the oil and fats, served with crisp balanced flavors. I especially loved it after I went vegan because their standard meal is almost entirely vegan and you can take any but the most intransigent of carnivores there and they'll leave happy.  I returned to the City in 2007 and it was on my list to try asap.  It's still pretty great.  Actually, I think it's the same except it used to be a steal and now it's more like a deal.  Also, honestly, I've had their meal so many times, I can now only have it once or twice a year, preferably when I've somehow worked up an outrageous hunger and most of all when I'm entertaining guests from out of town.The formula works and I can't blame them for sticking with it and I'm impressed that the kitchen staff and servers show no signs of boredom.  Iy probably deserves 5 starts but I'm just no longer in a position to grant it.Came here a long time ago, but was impressed with the concept/decor. I haven't been to many Indian restaurants in the city, but was taken here on a date and thought it was unique. Unfortunately, we were seated on the lower level (looks like a dark cave), as opposed to the warmly lit, little huts on the main floor. You do need an appetite to here! Everything is vegetarian and they start out giving you all the traditional Gujurati appetizers, followed by the thali(plate) with all the entree vegetables, puri, etc. You can order as many seconds, thirds, etc. as you want, but for me one tasting of each was enough!It makes me really sad to rate this place anything less than 4/5 stars because the food is delicious, however, I just had a really bad interaction with one of the employees on the phone that made me instantly dislike this place, so much so I canceled my reservation for four here within minutes of the phone call. I called and asked if they make any of their dishes gluten free and the guy's immediate response was 'we make the food the way we make the food' (in a rude tone). I then asked if any of there food was naturally gluten free and the guy repeated the same thing in the same rude tone and HUNG UP. Wtf?It's totally fine if they can't accommodate, but there's no need to be rude about it. What was this guy thinking?Well, I cancelled my reservation for four of us and made it for Tiffin Wallah who has no issues accommodating my dietary requests (for my gf and friend), but more importantly they were NOT rude!Sorry Vatan, never again.Vatan is a unique restaurant in the USA, simply because nobody else seems to have such a concept. They are open only for dinner, and you don't get to pick your food from a menu - they have a prix fixe dinner that's all you can eat.This is an unlimited meal - they keep serving you as long as you ask. Unless you like to drink a lot of lassi or soda, skip the side drink - the food's a'plenty. The meal is 3 courses - appetizer, entree and dessert - although I wouldn't really call it dessert. Their menu lists the items on each plate, so let your hostess know before they bring out the plate if you want to skip something - though they don't always seem to do this - my friend asked them to reduce the number of pooris, but they still brought out the full plate.Dessert is a bit weird - chai and mango ice cream - not two things that really go together. I'd say skip the ice cream altogether and stick with the chai - that's really good. Oh, and don't forget to ask for the aam ras before they bring out the entree plate, it's really good.I'd probably come here again the next time I'm in NYC, but I'll make sure to skip lunch ;)I definitely go here when I haven't eaten breakfast or lunch on a busy day.  They never stop bringing the food and its all super yummy!  Only annoying thing is the staff.  They really get in there and want to explain every little thing.  I have lived in new york city long enough to know the difference between paneer and raita, that doesn't take long.Meh. Really expensive and indifferent indian food. Service was also indifferent, professional enough, but definitely not warm in any way. From the main floor, ganesha looms over the dining area. A sitar soundtrack plays continuously. For people who know absolutely nothing about indian food, it's a non-threatening introduction. Food comes in thali trays and doesn't seem like much but is very filling. A bit of everything with unlimited refills.For people who know their indian food, this is overpriced, bland gujarati vegetarian. And it would probably be a better idea to go to another restaurant where you can order exactly what you want.It was much of a disappointment in taste for 30 plus 18 gratuity(guess i had too  much expectations) and not to mention  having a bloated stomach. Its not the best place to try some indian food.Disclaimer:  I am Gujarati.  I know Gujarati food.This food is extremely authentic and pretty tasty.  The decor is wonderful and the restaurant will never seem cramped even if it is completely full.  The fake tree and tiki huts is a little tacky especially since I have never seen those huts in Gujarat (but what do I know, I grew up in Philly).Why four stars and not five?  2 big reasons:The food is quite oily, not how my mom would make it.  The price is steep.Disclaimer: I am gujrati and I know gujrati food.Food and ambiance are good. Though taste is not that great because little oily and some stuff they add which make you drink so much water after eating and you start feeling unconformable. Though its difficult dont overeat.I would recommend this place when you get craving of eating "Gujrati thali". There are so many options for $30+tax+tip.Went there for dinner on a random night and selected the pre-fix option. I thought i walked in somewhere else as the entire waitstaff were dressed in Indian outfits. Not sure if that's every night or just that one night, but that was interesting. Portions are great here. I literally ate at least 4 servings of food (per course). This is how the pre-fix option works: They bring you an initial plate with most of their appetizers (in small portions). You can try all of them and if you like something more, you can ask for seconds (thirds, fourths and fifths in my case). Once you are done with the appetizers, the same applies for entrees. The only issue with the entree is that you are limited to one choice of bread (Puri's - deep fried goodness). However, you do get quite a few selection of the other vegetable dishes. I'm pretty sure I ate at least 4 dinners in one sitting. You won't leave this place hungry.If you sit in the upstairs dining room, you might need to remove your shoes. The tables are set up as if you are sitting on the floor (like they do in India). The downstairs dining room doesn't require you to remove your shoes, but it looks like you are inside of a cave. Overall, I'd definitely go back here for dinner any day.I'm stingy and I know it (with my 5-star reviews, that is). That being said, Vatan NY (vatanny.com) hands down deserves one of them.It's always a rare event for my entire family to get together for dinner, but we try to do it as much as we can. I live in Philadelphia, my father lives on an airplane, and my mother and sister are in Jersey. So, we definitely cherish the times when the stars align so that we can get together and enjoy a good meal.On one such occasion, we decided to head to NYC for dinner on a blisteringly cold February night earlier this year (bad idea). Then we decided to walk down to Vatan from the Port Authority Bus Terminal (worse idea). And then we decided to cut our losses, turn around, and catch a cab from the Terminal itself (worst idea). You're better off walking 2-3 blocks and catching a cab from a more nondescript place. It'll be faster and smoother.Transportation and weather aside, Vatan was a welcome sight when we finally got there. Being a family of four rabbits (aka vegetarians), we were really looking forward to the experience, and they certainly delivered. If you're interested in the full menu, check out the website (link above), but the highlights of the meal for me were: Mirchi Bhajji (Battered and Fried Green Chillies), Ragda Patties (Potato Patties with garnishes), and Aam Rus (kind of like mango pulp/juice, except meant to be eaten with puris, which are the small pieces of fried whole wheat bread). The best part? You can have as much food as you want.For a prix fixe menu at an Indian restaurant, the selection is immense, and to be honest, there wasn't a single thing on the menu that I didn't find enjoyable to some degree. Just make sure that you don't fill up too much on one particular item, since it means you'll have to sacrifice on eating something else (and yes, that is a depressing thought). Spiciness level was appropriately modified per everyone's individual preference (be careful, even I, the guy who eats raw chillies for fun, had issues with their medium-hot offering), but the wonderful meal combined with a great experience to really make our visit special.On the upstairs level (two levels of seating, which still isn't enough - they were PACKED), they have these booths where you have to take your shoes off and go sit down traditional style and have your dinner. If you're less adventurous and prefer a standard table setting, that can absolutely be done as well - but for the full experience, you should absolutely go the whole nine yards.All in all, it was a great experience, and I would go back there in a heartbeat. At 30$ per person, this is perfectly in-sync with the pricing of other restaurants in the area, and is more than worth the money that you shell out.If Epcot had India in their World Showcase, their restaurant experience would be that of Vatan.  When you enter, you are transported to another world where stress and the streets of Manhattan do not exist.  Make sure to make a reservation, so you will not wait to have to go on this voyage.  The staff here dresses in authentic and magically beautiful costume and treat you like royalty during your visit.  I never felt rushed and was always watched over to refills.However, the food is very bland in general, like it would be at Epcot.  I am used to eating Northern and Southern Indian food, and my co-worker and I requested medium spicy just in case.  The appetizers were the most flavorful of all of the dishes, my favorite being the fried hot pepper.  The entrees were very bland and even the chutneys could not save them.  I ate all of my poori and was finished.  The food being fairly generic in taste can be a blessing and a curse.  A blessing for those who would like to bring their friends here that are not accustomed to Indian cuisine and for tourists.  The bad being anyone that knows better feeling bored.  Don't get me wrong, I am still really impressed with the atmosphere and service.  But, this is a place that I will bring guests to that are looking for more of an experience than a flavorful Indian meal.I don't want to bash the food as it was pretty good and plenty. The problem was the service. They didn't know what they were serving after asking several times. They refused to split our check. we were there with another couple that wanted to pay their portion. I guess they figured that they couldn't charge the 18% gratuity if they split up the bill.  what Crap as I never tip less than 20% as every one should. I am not sure if it is legal to force a tip down our throat regardless of the quality of service.Great Gujarati food in the city, no wonder they have been open for so many years now.  While the place is all you can eat. One serving of each course the appetizer and entree platters is enough. I am Gujarati and can say this reminds of home.  Give it a try, the muthia is one of my favorite.I walked in off the street and was immediately impressed by the beautiful atmosphere. The dinner was $32 not including the glass of wine and the tip, my meal came to $50.50. The service was excellent, the waitress was prompt and thorough, taking the time to explain each course and how it is best eaten.  The food was delicious and abundant. It was way too much for one person and I was full after the appetizers but there was no way I was missing the main course. I love the idea of everything on the menu being included in small plates. I also was grateful for the carafe of water they leave on the table. Be wary of the spicy pepper! I also are a plate of roasted garlic, that was amazing. Sit down with an appetite and leave without one. Overall A+ an excellent experience.A Gujarati "churrasscaria".Came here with 5 omnivores, 2 herbivores and 1 carnivore (myself). It was a Friday during lent, and most of the non herbivores are practicing. I had read and heard stellar remarks about Vatan, but I figured scheduling this way would ease the process of luring meat-eaters into a vegetarian restaurant. The premise is simple. There is a menu, but as the waitress may tell you, you will not need it, save for deciding on a drink. They will bring you large trays with single servings of multiple dishes. You eat what you want and they will bring more of anything you ask for. The ambiance is designed to mimic a Gujarati village. Patrons dine either in huts or at tables beside a tree. A little gimmicky, but still does the trick. The service is outstanding. The host was accommodating to our dynamic party size, but please do call ahead to make reservations. The waitresses described each and every dish from the ingredients to how it is eaten, and were eager to offer refills. The food was exceptional. Adding to my brief description above, the appetizer tray contains at least 8 different items, while the entrée contains 6 dishes. Of the meal comes with an assortment of chutney and rices. As per Sona P., this was the best Gujarati food she has had outside of home. Delicious AND authentic. All the meat-eaters were happily stuffed, and this is the only purely vegetarian restaurant I would enjoy returning to. Did I mention all you can eat mango ice cream for dessert?At $29 per person, the food isn't exactly cheap, especially given the lack of meat, but the experience, quality and deliciousness all make this restaurant a worthwhile go... especially on Fridays during Lent (for Catholics)(^_^) Ambience(^_^) Service(^_^) Deliciousness(^_^) Variety(^_-) Bang for buckGlad I came. Won't be a regular, but will definitely recommend.The food was really good. But I found it a bit pricey for a vegetarian meal. Must try once for the experienceI came here for a complimentary meal courtesy of my friend's dad who is good friends with the owner and I, along with 5 friends, nearly ate myself into a coma. First of all, I used to pass Vatan on the way to work everyday and loved it long before I ever stepped foot inside because of the giant elephant outside (key to my heart). We were seated at a booth and I was amused by how they made us take our shoes off before sitting down... I felt like I was back in India. We each had the four course prix fixe, which is basically your only option, and proceeded to decimate the thalis. Everything was so delicious we couldn't possibly not eat every last thing on the plate. It is all vegetarian and while I love my meat (hehe), this was one of the most epic meals of my life. Will definitely be back and try to practice more moderation next time though I'm pretty sure I'll fail miserably.Food is outstanding. Just beware you will go into a Vatan comma after. Vatan is the end of your night or at least you should plan it to be. Any negative review I've read about this place is usually stupid and has nothing to do with the quality of the food and service ie " I wish I could take the food home" it's a freaking all you can eat dumb dumbs.Vatan isn't your standard Indian restaurant, which is the most impressive thing about it. For one thing, it has a prix-fixe $30 menu; second it is unusually decorated (the ground floor features bamboo huts where you take off your shoes and sit on the floor, whereas the top floor has standard seating). I think the decorations were borderline tacky and gaudy (extremely bright colors and bamboo poles made the place look almost like a 1970s Polynesian bar), but at least they're trying to be different.I called ahead and confirmed that they have vegan food; indeed, most of the dishes they serve throughout the night are vegan, with a few exceptions.The first course of the meal is a thali full of a variety of snack foods and fried things (samosas, batter-fried vegetables, etc.). All of them were tasty enough, but nothing stood out in my mind. The second course featured three or four curries (think potatoes, tomatoes, cauliflower, etc.), lentil dishes, rice and whatnot. Again, none of the food stood out in any way from Indian food you'd find elsewhere, but it was respectable.The food would have been much better if they'd:a) offered brown rice, instead of just white riceb) offered wholewheat roti, instead of fried, oily white flour puric) made some dishes with less common vegetables/legumes, such as fava beans, okra, kohlrabi, or maybe even some American/Chinese vegetables such as broccoli, bok choy, pea tips, etc.d) re-created some Indian vegetarian dishes with modern vegan ingredients such as tofu (or "soya paneer" as Indians call it), dehydrated Nutrela soy chunks, seitan, tempeh, etc.For dessert, they gave us some mango pulp and also made a nice cup of black tea (normally they give milk tea and some dairy ice cream). I appreciated both, but it's really easy these days to get vegan ice cream (Trader Joe's has a killer mango-vanilla soy ice cream that my Indian family loves), and to offer soy milk or rice/almond milk for hot beverages.It seemed like a gross oversight on the part of the kitchen here to not offer such basic vegan substitutes, especially in an all-vegetarian restaurant. The management here would do well to not only offer these products (and maybe soy yogurt as well), but to also learn a bit about how dairy products are made in the US, which is, on balance, with cruelty to the animals and poor working conditions for the oft-illegal labor.While the food is unlimited here (and you can go back to earlier parts of the meal at any time and order more of a particular dish), the reality is that you can't eat much more than what they initially serve you.Given that the quantity of the food ends up being pretty standard, you're really paying for variety.At the same time, though, the food isn't organic, isn't innovative, and doesn't offer cool vegan substitutes. As such, I don't think it's a good value at $30.I applaud Vatan for being one-of-a-kind, but I probably won't be coming back here unless it makes the changes I recommended above.The $30 prix-fixe deal is worth every penny. I haven't enjoyed such good Indian food in a really long time (yes, I didn't even have such delicious food in India!)Every single item in the thali was delicious. They clearly used VERY high-quality ingredients, and did not skimp on the portions either (well, its unlimited!) I haven't even had such good service in New York City. The hostess was very nice and clearly cared about us being completely satisfied with our experience.Fantastic food! Great price, great ambiance, great restaurant overall! I've been here so many times and even brought my non-Indian friends, and they've all loved it there just as much! Go with an empty stomach, because you will definitely walk out with a very full stomach. You will love the authentic Gujarati food served here. Also, the service was great; the waiters are very nice and personable. You will not regret going here :)My Favourite vegetarian restaurant. You should eat at Vatan when you have 3 hours, I prefer Tuesday or Wednesday. All food is prepared fresh. Tell your server your spice level. I have eaten at Vatan a dozen time and have been extremely satisfied with service and quality of food. Common mistake people make- eat a lot of appetizer and then have no appetite for dinner. Next time you are dinning at Vatan- start with Indian beer, enjoy all appetizer in smaller portions, repeat if needed, enjoy dinner.Favourite appetizer : Batatawada ( Spicy potatoes fried w flour) Dinning at Vatan is not just for food but is an experience!It's a good thing that my wife was here before. She had prepared me adequately for our visit here by starving me. Trust me, you will need all the space in your stomach to do justice to the food that they serve here. The best thing was the ambiance. It reminded me of the summers I visited ours grandparents in the village. The roof is painted blue like the blue skies and there is fake banyan tree with some monkeys (fake ones of course) on top of them. There are hand drawn designs on the painted walls and some seating areas resembled the huts in Indian villages. I really enjoyed the food and it was unlimited so you can get as much as you want. The water was served in copper vessels. The dinner at Vatan was an experience more than just a meal. Make sure you have a reservation before coming in. They're usually busy and we spent an hour and a half eating here. So you can expect to wait a long time to be seated if you do not have a reservation.This wonderful Manhattan restaurant was just as terrific the last time we came, as the first time around 15 years ago.  Please come hungry, there is so much delicious food to try.  Vegetarian Indian tasting menu.  A treasure.Save your money, and go to Curry Hill around the corner for tastier, fresher and considerably cheaper Indian food. Pros:Dhokla (Steamed Rice Appetizer) and Khichdi/ Kadhi (Savoury rice and yogurt sauce accompaniment) Cons:Tacky Indian Village ambiance OverpricedPathetic service (details below)Cold Food (All the food is prix fix, so it is prepared way ahead of time and served lukewarm to cold, despite multiple requests). We went to Vatan after years of walking past it and not going inside because it was sooo expensive and good~decent Indian food is not hard to find in the city. Anywho, we made plans on Opentable and showed up for our anniversary night. We were seated in the aisle tables and not inside the hut like thing they've tried to recreate. I thought it looked tacky on the whole and didn't mind the missing hut. We had made a special note saying it was our anniversary but they didn't even wish us or do anything special (unlike every other restaurant we've been to for past anniversaries through OpenTable). The waitress bought our appetizer round, and it was all decent but not spectacular. I've eaten Gujarati food in Gujarat and in New York/ New Jersey and California and this is certainly not the best I've had (not even in the top 10). One thing I could not help notice is how everything was cold (not even microwave heated) and felt "un-fresh". The waitress left immediately and didn't come back till another 20 minutes later. She never asked if we liked any of the appetizers or if we wanted anything. The waitress then proceeded to clear our tables and bring our main course thaali, at which point I "self served" and asked for seconds of the dhokla appetizer (I asked for a few pieces and got just one piece) and requested for the food to be hot when it is served. The waitress gets our food in a jiffy (which is not indicative that it was just made or heated) and no surprise - the food is f**king cold. I am apalled at how cold the rice and the khichdi is - it is just one notch about refrigerated overnight food. But of course the waitress had vanished after serving our food. So I had to wait and gesture to other waitresses to have her sent to our table - and she didn't apologize but took the entire accompaniments back to be reheated. (I am sorry to point this out again, but I had specifically requested her this when she was clearing our appetizer thali). Anyways, the rest of the dinner was uneventful. We were never asked how our food was, if we liked it, thanked for our business or wished for our special day. What a bad choice. Curry Hill just around the corner could have done a much better job of giving us our Indian food fix for a third of the money. Tip was already included, and the check was brought to us with our dessert - there was no - perhaps they'd want something else option - it was a closure just as cold as the whole evening and our food. What a pity.The thali is a super easy process, a little condescending but it makes sense. Perfect for tourists and out of towners. The food is really good. The interior is pretty in a Disney dark ride kind of way.Let me start by saying that I'm not the biggest fan of Gujarati food. I don't like the sweetness that is in the customarily savory dishes. And therefore, the daal, the subji, and much more were a little too sweet for me. Ew. The puri were soft, and I just love puri with channa masala anyways. I love the mango, I couldn't stand the pakoras (that pepper? lolwut?) and the samosas, while good, tasted just like the frozen kind. The dahi vada was good, but I've had better.The ambiance is why this restaurant even deserves three stars-I love the way they decorated and got it together. That alone makes it a worthwhile place to visit...once. If you want great Indian veg, not necessarily Gujju veg, go to the Flushing temple. You will be astounded.Was craving Gujarati Thali and Vatan was on the top of the list. I was a bit hesitant to try the thali at $30 price point but we decided to give it a go. I will be repeating what everyone has just said. the decor is pretty and relaxing. The servers are fantastic. Our server explained everything they were serving even though she knew we are familiar with this food.The appetizer course was good. i loved the samosa and ragda pattis. My friend liked the batata vada and sev puri.The entree was good and my favorite was chhole and dal. They had aam ras which was from the can but what can you expect in winter :)We were too full by dessert and i could not enjoy the mango icecream and tea.Overall, good experience.It's always a good sign when the majority of tables are filled with Indian families. Great choice for folks unfamiliar with Indian food that want to try a bunch of different dishes as well as those passionate for Indian food. Think of it like a $30 Indian tasting menu (where you can ask for seconds). Go really really hungry.The wine list is lacking and they don't serve cocktails but you go there for the food! The decor cracked me up; as The Venetian in Las Vegas it to Italy, this place is to India.Let me first summarize.  Some of the items they serve in their prix-fixe menu are tasty, but their service is lousy and they use crude tactics so you eat less and leave.The concept of this restaurant is fairly easy to understand.  For each course, they give small portions of about 8-10 items.  At least in theory, you can ask for more of any item, and they'll bring you another *very small* portion of the item or items that you ask for.For us, the waitress only came by every 15-20 minutes to ask if we wanted something else.  During the course of the meal there were literally 10+ minutes were we were waiting for our waitress to come by so we could ask for more food.  And when we asked, she only brought a tiny portion, which could be finished in a minute.  They we waited again for her to come by...Since the waitress took so long to come by, the meal took more than 2 hours.  They waitress clearly become irritated with us because of the length of time we were there and it became obvious she wanted us to leave.There were empty tables.  It was clear she didn't come by often because she wanted us to a) lose interest in asking for more food because of the wait and b) finish up our meal and leave so they could save money.My apologies, but Vatan is not a discount buffet.  It's $30/person and we're going to finish our meal when enough food has been served to us.  All of us at the table were fairly light eaters, so it's not a case that we're a bunch of elephants eating endless amounts of food.I'm not planning to ever go here again.Great Decor, Good idea to build a "THALI" Restaurant in NYC.  The food is actually pretty decent.  Being a "Gujarati"....the food definitely will not compare to the traditional home cooked meal. However, this will be the closest thing to eating a home cooked meal. The appetizers are way better than the Main course. They have the Canned Mango pulp"Aam Ras".  SOme people love it, others find it too sweet. Doenst bother me.... The price is pretty decent for the variety.  For an Indian restaurant where i dont normally expect exceptional service; This was a different experience.  The server who looked like a typical middle aged Indian woman was actually pretty well spoken and really cared for every single detail. She even offerred to customize the spice levels between the thalis that we ordered, which is not as easy as it might seem. She was extremely knowledgable about her menu. All this can seem pretty normal to expect out of a wait staff; However, I have always emphasised FOOD QUALITY vs SERVICE @ Indian Restaurants....This particular one.....Wins BOTH !!First off, I LOVE the decor here. It could be construed as slightly kitschy and looks like a themed spot right out of Vegas, but this place was a welcome respite from the city. Especially given that a very unattractive 3rd Avenue is right outside. The restroom is pretty gorgeous too. I felt like an Indian princess (lol!).We made a reservation for a Friday at 6:30, which honestly wasn't necessary, since it was empty when we arrived. It suddenly got crowd though about 45 minutes into our meal.I wish I had the bottomless pit of an appetite I should've had before coming for the $30 prix-fixe dinner, but that wasn't the case. I savored as much of the three course meal I could. The dishes come as little sample dabs on a big personal tray. It's a bit of a shock to your visuals and taste buds because this style of Indian cuisine is apparently nothing like the popular stuff you come across. Once you wrap your mind about that fact, the food is quite enjoyable, although I cannot tell you what any of them are called.I really liked the whole experience, but am not sure how to rate my post-dinner feeling. I was overstuffed just a bit too long, so I'm not sure if it was just my stomach and lack of sleep or the food had something to do with it.I definitely give it a 3.5 now, but I'd have to go again when I'm 100% to evaluate and give it another half star for the food.Just maybe the best Indian Food we have eaten outside of India. Service was impeccable. Be sure you go there with an appetite. The food just keeps on coming. Very well priced beverages.Only for the shear novelty of it all you should try this place. Jen and I have a laugh whenever we eat here because I start the meal off by moaning because I need to bend over to take my shoes off! Not that I need to complain (I run about 12 % body fat) but at my age, it is fun to bitch about something. From there, "we've always had a great meal."I love the concept behind Vatan. I love the decor, the waitstaff outfits, the thali setup--basically everything BUT the food. The food, at best, is bland. I didn't even have the experience of feeling stuffed because I was so bored by the food. I would love to see this restaurant reconceptualized with South Indian veg food, which is infinitely tastier than Gujarati veg food in my opinion).Also, I'm not sure why they kept us waiting for half an hour, only to take us down to the lower level, where there were plenty of empty tables. I feel like they put South Asian groups in the lower level and "American" (read: white) groups on the upper levels.A vegetarian food lovers paradise! Have been to this place multiple times and never been disappointed.If you are looking for a true home cooked meal, from the western part of India this is the place. You will never walk out of this place with an empty stomach and a full wallet ( a bit pricey).The ambience reminds you of a typical Western Indian village. The food is served in multiple courses and it's unlimited. Each menu item is described very well by traditionally dressed waiting staff. The staff is very well spoken and extremely friendly.Word of advice: Wear loose clothing and please make a reservation as this place is almost always full.I would have given this place 3 and a half stars. We almost walked past this place at night, but I will have you know it IS there.I have not been to an Indian Gujarati restaurant in New York. Most have been North or South Indian and do offer many non-vegetarian meals. Vatan does not, and that was actually comforting! They have these booths underneath a village style decor up top. You must take off your shoes before sitting, a if you are getting ready to sit down for dinner in India. The atmosphere is very refreshing and spacious. The waitresses wear very traditional Indian cholis. It seems a bit pricy at first. 30$ pp on a prix-fixe menu. We were waiting for my significant other to arrive, since my father, aunt and uncle were there a little bit early. It had only been 15 minutes, however the waitress came by 4 times to find out when he would show up.As soon as he sat down, we got our appetizers. There is a menu, and we never really "ordered" anything except what to drink. "Non-negotiable" was the word of the day.There were little samosas, different chutneys, and some other quaint little nuances. The plate was huge and it comes in traditional steel plates, as well as the water or whatever sodas you decide to get in ceramic cups. The food was really good, tasted pure, and it felt really good to somewhat be back in the "mother land."For entrees, we had different types of shak, poorees, accompanied by different chutneys. I was very pleased with everything and it really felt like something out of my neighborhood in India.Dessert, you had options of chai, coffee, or ice cream. They had this mango-pineapple ice cream which tasted like Apple Gate Farms. When we asked the waitress if that's what it was, she just slyly smiled. After dinner, we walked around this 3 floor restaurant which you would never think is as enormous from the outside.. It's clean, and sophisticated. Blue skies painted around the ceilings and different Hindu pictures and monuments linger around you.Service was good, it was not busy for a Thursday night. I wish we would've had more options considering how expensive it was. However, I would definitely come back here and suggest this as a place to take your parents, out-of-towners or seniors.Craving for the yummiest gujrati thali in the city? This is the place to go to. Book your table in advance and enjoy the food coming to your table like a BOSS! Its best when you have more than a couple of hours on your hand to go , sit and eat.The restaurant's headline should be Come Hungry, Leave Satisfied. My family and I went there for dinner since my parents are vegetarian. It was definitely worth it. Also worth noting is that it's not like a typical buffet arrangement where you take a plate and serve yourself from the tables. The waiters bring you the menu to show you what you will be eating. Then each person gets a plate of appetizers listed on the menu and it's more than enough. After appetizers, they bring the entrees in the same manner. We found the food to be flavorful and delicious. The waiters were very polite and answered all our questions. The ambiance and decor are also worth mentioning. It felt as though we were dining in a well maintained "dhaba" in India.  I would recommend this place for families, groups and anyone who wants to get a real taste of North Indian cuisine.I actually think I enjoyed my dinner experience at Gaam better, but Vatan is still quite amazing.  Who knew you could have a gourmet Gujarati restaurant??  Not meee!!I think that the restaurant is actually well decorated (not sure what complaints everyone else has).  The food was DELICIOUS.  Of course some parts of the meal are better than others, but at least you can always ask for more of what you like!  I made the mistake of being too full by the end to really partake in the khichdi, which is something I normally love.Happy that Gujarati thali has made its way over here.  If only the typically low Indian prices would come on over too!If you're looking to eat here, it's best to skip a meal or two to build a nice appetite. There's so much food and all of it so delicious that you never want to stop eating. Service is impeccable, good old indian hospitality. The ambience can be a little mellow for some, but since they are going for a low-key, family friendly vibe I don't mind it as much. They could definitely benefit from changing up their menus once in a while. Overall a great place to try if you're into vegetarian indian food. Don't forget to ask for 'aamras' when you place your order - a sweet mango heavenly liquid that alone justifies the $30 meal you will have here.Vegetarian Gujarati cuisine, reminded me of eating with a friend's family in Mombasa!  Very spicy (although you can choose your spiciness level) but very good - it's all you can eat set menu of cold appetizers (Khaman - puffed cream of wheat flour cakes, Sev Puri - potatoes garbanzo beans yogurt chutney filled in a crispy bread, Samosa, Batatavada - fried potato balls) and hot entrees (suateed spinch and corn, puffed whole wheat bread, rice pudding with saffron and dried fruits, chickpeas with tamarin and garam masal), and rice and assorted sauces.  Then finish the meal with homemade Indian ice cream (strawberry!) and Masala Chai.  You can ask for a refill of any dishes at any time.The decor is the highlight though.  I mean you eat in front of a giant elephant deity bathed in a puple neon glow... and then there's classics such as tonic and joshua tree next door... can it get any better??The place is really good for the experience and good service. The food is good as well.. But I would give it more marks just for authentic experienceOver the last decade, I've been to Vatan a lot. You always get nostalgic for your first, I suppose (first Gujarat dining experience, that is), and perhaps something keeps drawing you back. Their prix fixe price for their decadent thali meal has gone up about $10 since I first went there. Truth be told, you are probably paying for the ambiance--there's a big Ganesh statue and a banyan tree overlooking the booths, some of which require you to take off your shoes (love this). The appetizer and thali parts of the meal are served on silver trays with compartments that house each dish. I've always been a fan of the mini samosas, their channa masala, as well as the puri, bhaji and all the potato dishes that are served (there are a few). The aam ras (mango pulp) served with the thali is divine, but if you really want to live like a baller, add on the mango lassi shake (not included in the $30 prix fixe). Speaking of mango, the mango ice cream is delicious, and the chai tea served at the end is lightly spiced and yummy.What makes this more of a 3.5 star place is the service. It's a mixed bag. I've had some great hostesses, but other times, I feel as if I'm getting rushed out of there. Simmer down, Vatan. I know you're a busy veg oasis, but I like to linger a bit after your gigantic feasts.I had extremely high expectations after reading the rave reviews as well as recommendations from several New York friends.  As a Gujarati, I was really excited to.try Gujarati food in NY.  But after going to Vatan, I was equally as disappointed. NY sets a really high bar when it comes to Indian food and the experience at Vatan falls short on every level.1. The Food: They failed to highlight the great taste of Gujarati food.  The food was bland and even after we requested them to make it spicy, they ignored us.the food was cold and tasted like it was prepared 2 days ago.2. Service: seemed like the waitress was more interested in hurring the customers through their meals than letting them enjoy the different courses. The only time she came to the table was when she wanted to just take the plates away.  We asked for ghee for the khichdi and instead she brought the used ghee from the puri making which is not edible.  Gujarati food is about insisting people to enjoy, eat more and have a great experience.  Vatan unfortunately was extremely disappointing.  We felt like unvited guest at dinner. 3. Cost: I understand that food in NYC is expensive but for the quality of food they serverd, its a ripoff.  Plus they charge 18% gratuity for no service at all.  I guess they charge the gratuity to climb up and down the stairs twice.  Conclusion: this is NOT a place you want to spend your hard earned money if you are looking for good food and decent service. NY has excellent Indian restaurants which provide a more intimate experience with some amazing food. Pass on this one and try one of the 50 other places on Lexington instead.Came here on Diwali and it totally hit the spot!  I was totally blown away when I first walked in.  They did a really good job on décor.  It was really well done, good concept with the Gujarat village décor. Everything was clean and new.  Doesn't sound like much, but I've been to some Indian restaurants where that is not a priority.The food!  You get a whole plate of appetizers and then another whole plate for the mains.  To be honest with you, I enjoyed the appetizers so much that I almost filled up on them.   It doesn't help that you can get unlimited amounts on anything you'd like.  My favorite was the mini samosa's.  My husband loved the potato vada's.   A good range of Gujarati appetizer selection.   For the mains, the puri came hot and fresh.  It was obvious that they had not been made earlier in the day at all.  I felt like I got a range of different curries...potato and cauliflower, corn and spinach, channa.   The kichdi and cudi were also really tasty.  To me, it couldn't get any closer to mom's cooking.   To end it all, the mango ice cream totally reminded me of the ice cream you get in India.  Really creamy...You can get plenty of North Indian food around here e.g. butter chicken, chicken tikka, etc. but it was refreshing to get GOOD Gujarati food.  Very authentic taste.  This was great for a change.  The service was great.  I really liked the manager.  Very courteous, professional and asked us a few times how we were doing.  we will definitely be back.Vatan is my favorite Indian restaurant in NYC. That's saying a lot because I love Indian food and go out for it all the time.My husband and I only go to Vatan on special occasions because it's expensive - these days I believe it's $35 per person (drinks and tip not included of course). You cannot have your bill be cheaper than that because Vatan is pre-fixe, meaning there is a set menu and you do not get to choose what you get! That might sound odd but the food is DELICIOUS and ALL YOU CAN EAT! We are vegan so actually that's the exception to the "no choosing" thing - we just tell the waitress this at the beginning and she ensures that everything that comes out to our table is vegan. There are multiple courses and she will explain everything to you if it's your first time. The mini samosas are soooo good, we even asked the caterer at our wedding to try and recreate "mini samosas like at Vatan!"The decor is beautiful and the ladies room is large and clean. The staff is very nice and professional.This place is not real indian food. Also, i dont know what they put in it but me and my wife got a stomach upset. Wont go here again. Although, the ambiance is cool.This place is not bad at all. The concept of table-serviced indian buffet is unusual. The service was very good on Friday night: our waitress was attentive and gave us clear explanations of the meals served. The design and decor is super cliché (fake tree with hanging monkeys ...) but the place is warm and comfortable. I enjoyed having a private booth and removing my shoes before getting in. The food was good overall, not special, but it is pretty difficult not to like indian food. I, however, won't go back for the following reasons:- I got stuffed and couldn't sleep well that night.- The menu never changes!! The first picture posted on Yelp is from 2009 and the fixed menu selection is exactly the same today. How sad and how easy for the kitchen, way too easy for a $30 price tag.- The concept of dish sampling applied to Indian cuisine doesn't make much sense. Indian food is good but, at Vatan level, it is not a culinary experience. Going from one dish to another doesn't provide any unique gastronomic sensation.- Starch tasting anyone? Any balanced meal needs a serving of a staple food such a rice, pasta or beans. But at Vatan, you will be served the full panel of starchy foods all at once, making up for at least 95% of your meal: garbanzo beans, a few dishes with wheat flour, a few dishes with potatoes, a few dishes with chickpeas, lentil soup, rice pudding, some corn...  - At a restaurant called " ... Vegetarian", I'd like to actually see a few vegetables. Out of about 16 dishes only 1 had some green in it. The very few other tiny chops of veggies were heavily fried.While my motto is not to review places that I have only been to once to avoid biased experiences, this is different because my experience itself was perfectly okay, my complains are purely related to the concept and the food selection (that never changes !).This was my first Indian cuisine experience. To be honest, I was a little scared.. But I went and tried it....AND IT WAS AMAZING!We had the fixed price menu and I especially loved the creamed spinach, cauliflowers, and bread. For having eating a vegetarian menu, none of us felt like we missed out on meat that night.Mmm, mmm, mmm.. Want to go back already.Rich and fabulous gujarati buffet.A fixed menu with apppetisers, dinner and mango ice-cream with tea.The decor is a bit excessive in an attempt to create a gujarati village.Around 40$ including tip without drinks.Worth the money if you're famished for sure.Wonderful food, wonderful service. We really enjoyed our recent meal at Vatan and can highly recommend the fresh, tasty food. We'll definitely be back!From the moment I walked in I was already wowed. It so pretty inside and a very calming atmosphere. The lit up elephant in the back of the room looks stunning. I loved the fact that I could take of my shoes and unwind after standing on my feet all day in the city. Food is excellent and a real treat for a vegetarian as myself. They truly do keep offering to serve you more food as their "all you can eat" menu states, until you are past the point of full.The food is invigorating to all senses.Ambiance:Loved, loved, loved the Gujarati theme. The owner has gone to great lengths to recreate a Gujarati village inside the restaurant. The decor is very welcoming and the music is quite soothing. I wish they played Hindustani (Indian) classical instead of Bollywood instrumentals. And a special high-five for keeping the restrooms so immaculate and classy.Service:Service was pretty good but I wish the waitress loosened up a bit. She was speaking only when spoken to pretty much. She did ask us several times whether we were doing alright and needed anything. Fair enough :)Food:The amount of food that gets served is obviously unlimited, but the variety is pretty much endless too. You get at least 10 different appetizers, 5-6 entrees, a dessert and a masala chai to end the marathon meal. Oh, by the way, they serve liquor too which is super-awesome in my books. I had a Kingfisher with my Gujarati Thali. Quite an irony I know but it was a match made in heaven :D Make sure that you do not eat lunch before you head there else you will not do justice to all the great food that is about to get served. Also spare a couple hours to actually sit back, relax and relish your dinner. It's an experience in itself.And once you're done with your meal, don't forget to stop by for a paan next door. Enjoy!This place rules. Just remember to wear socks!The interior is just awesome- you just have to see it. The staff, who wear traditional garb, are kind and accommodating. This is a great place to bring a group, especially fans of vegetarian food or really spicy food. You get a TON of food, and I recommend that you don't gobble up all of the appetizers in the beginning (that's the giant tray of food they bring you first). Also, skip the beer and drink wine or water.This place serves good Indian (Gujarati) food. Interesting as you don't have to order anything. The appetizer thali mostly consists of tasty chaat items. Just the right portions and great variety. The main thali that has curried vegetables, kadhi, daal, puris, rice and khichadi is enjoyable too. Authentic Indian flavors which one doesn't really find in every Indian restaurant. Dessert-  the masala tea is lovely but doesn't  really go with the mango ice cream. Helpful service, good food and characteristic Indian setting make this place worth going to.They KICK you out as quickly as possible. I've been here twice, both times they have done this. They rush you through the meal and try to get you out as soon as possible. The food is good, decor is like a kids playhouse (kinda cheesy but fun I guess), but the people that work here do not know customer service. All of the websites say they are open til 11:30. Tonight we got in around 9 so I figured we had time to enjoy the meal. WRONG. They kept coming by to take out plates even though it was obvious that we were still eating. Then at 10:25 the place had cleared out and we were still finishing (they do give you a lot of food) and the waitress comes by and tells us they are closing. I said "but your website says 11:30?" , she said no we are closing.  Even after I showed her the site from my phone. Then I said okay well give us ten more min please (it wasn't even 10:30), with attitude she said fine, but continued to walk by and give us mean looks. Now I was a bartender for 11 years, I know what it's like when you want to leave, but this was just really rude. We went here to enjoy a nice dinner but they treat it like McDonalds. The first time I went I figured maybe the waitress was having a bad night so wanted to give it another try, and like I said the food is good. This just confirmed for me that this is just the place's  MO.  Do NOT believe the hours of operation listed, it is whenever they feel like going home. If you are a extremely quick eater and want that kind of meal then... Still go to McDonalds because the customer service is much nicer there.Lol Update- they changed their hours now on Yelp !Good. ... Still I won't be going there again!All I can say is - make sure you go hungry! I personally liked their appetizer thali more than the entree one but that could've been because I was already so full!Fantastic! One of the best, if not the best, vegetarian Indian restaurant in the NY metropolitan area. There is no choice for the menu, except that you can select mild, medium or hot. From start to finish, you are offered a wide variety of excellent dishes, and you can get as much of it as you like. But watch out, don't load up on appetizers because the main course(s) are even better. It's a huge quantity of excellent food. Make a reservation for Friday or Saturday evenings, or you'll get shut out.  Weeknights, you can just walk in. I've taken non-vegetarians here, and they enjoy it, but this place is truly a real treat for vegetarians. Not to be missed if you are a vegetarian looking for an upscale Indian dining experience.Authentic Gujarati vegetarian food... Everything tastes yummy, and the service is great.Excellent service and decor. Authentic flavors and fresh, light, food. Will certainly visit again.